 we wanted... to believe. we wanted to call out. on august 20th and september 5th, 1977, two spacecraft were launched from the kennedy space flight center, florida. they were called voyager.each one carries a message. a gold-plated record depicting images, music and sounds of our planet, arranged so that it may be understood if ever intercepted by a technologically mature extraterrestrial civilization. 
 thirteen years after its launch, voyager one passed the orbital plane of neptune and essentially leaving our solar system. within that time, there were no further messages sent. nor are any planned. we wanted to listen. on october 12th, 1992, nasa initiated the high-resolution microwave survey. four dollars for the first hour of parking is criminal. what you got better be worth at least forty-five minutes. 
 him?  hes dead, scully. i attended his funeral at arlington through eight-power binoculars from a thousand yards away. now, the picture frame was turned down, you wanted to talk. what have you found?  its dangerous for us just to have a little chat, scully. we must assume were being watched.  no, no, of course not. these people are the best.  so why have you bothered to come here covertly?  so what do you want?  theyve got me on electronic surveillance. white-bread cases, bank fraud, insurance fraud, health care swindles.  no, it...  have you ever been to san diego?  did you check out the palomar observatory?  from 1948 until recently, it was the largest telescope in the world. the idea and design came from a brilliant and wealthy astronomer named george ellery hale. actually, the idea was presented to hale one night. while he was playing billiards, an elf climbed in his window and told him to get money from the rockefeller foundation for a telescope.  in my case... little green men. 
 thats just the point. seeing is not enough, i should have something to hold onto. some solid evidence. i learned that from you. 
 im beginning to wonder if... if that ever even happened.  leave it, im watching "the magician" at nine.  theyre next door at the galbrands and they said im in charge. hey! get out of my life!im watching "the magician."now, look. the fuse is blown.
 samantha! samantha! samantha... samantha! no!
 its bach. "brandenburg concerto number three." 
 good thing it wasnt a double jeopardy question. 
 well, uh... recalling music appreciation with professor ganz, bach had a genius for polyphonic...  i know ive let you down. youve supported me at great risk to your reputation. i realized when they shut us down, there was nothing you could do. all i can say is, i think we were close. to what, i dont know.what?
 i live for bach.  the search for extraterrestrial radio signals. they shut it down.  what am i looking for? 
 gracias.  no trace evidence immediately apparent around the exterior of the control room which is locked with chains. the power has been turned off. although, the control panel lights are still on. the room is about thirty by fifteen. i see no signs of any recent occupation. theres quite an odor of mildew in the air... the air is stale. if anyones been here recently... i see no indications.
 who are you? who are you? what are you doing here? jorge concepcion: por favor, no me lastime! yo tengo mucho miedo! 

 thats all right, settle down. settle down. jorge concepcion: tenemos que irnos aqui.  mulder: hablo inglese? 
 mulder: name? nombre? nombre?  jorge concepcion: jorge... me llamo jorge concepcion. 
 jorge, why are you so afraid? what have you seen?  jorge concepcion: luces en el cielo. rojo, azul, anaranjaro. pense que una avioneta habia entrado de los arboles. pero cuando llegue... vi hombres... como animales... pero no hombres. me agarraron y me pusieron aqui. todavia estan en el bosque! 
 jorge, no comprende! did you say men? hombres? 
 the signal from 0630, tuesday. the narrow band and exact matching of the antenna pattern indicates that it originated from beyond lunar distance. but the same message is trans... no, jorge! dont touch that red button. no-ho on the rojo.thanks.the same message was transmitted four hours later on a wide band... which puts its point of origin very close... just miles away from...
 its just a tape machine, jorge!  jorge concepcion: vamanos! vamanos immediamente, por favor! 
 where are we going to go? theres a storm outside. you cant be afraid, jorge! no! 
 they came, scully... the ones that took her. they were here. 
 on the tapes... the tape. evidence. proof. and the transmissions, its all here. contact. and these print-outs... its here. and the man... well have to examine the body. therell be more proof.
 no, this isnt it. its the blue berets crash retrieval team. theyll kill us. help me with the body.
 help me!  i understand that leaving my assignment warrants disciplinary action and im willing to accept those measures.  but i had enough on that surveillance to arrest those suspects. after three days, i could have nailed them on forty counts of bank fraud but you left me there. im surprised you even noticed i was gone, let alone wiretap my phone... an illegal procedure without a court order. 
 a minute ago, i was a four-bagger. do you want me to make the arrests?  it should be right here. the entire tape is blank.
 i may not have the x-files, scully, but i still have my work. and ive still got you.and i still have myself. separator yeah.  where am i going?  treat yourself.  how did i draw the assignment?  skinner requested me? 
 mulder, f.b.i.  yeah, wouldn't want to step in anything.  they lied. who found the body? any i.d.?  no, i'll take your word on that. 
 wrap it up and send it to the f.b.i., care of assistant director skinner. i need to speak to him.  will you tell him that i'm here and i need to speak with him? now. 
 yeah, there is.  it's kind of hard to make an appointment when you're up to your ass in raw sewage, being jerked around from one meaningless assignment to another. 
 what's my next punishment, scrubbing the bathroom floors with a toothbrush?  so i gathered.  it seemed to me like a simple drugland body dump, not the type of case the f.b.i. normally wastes it's time and manpower on.  sir, my work on the x-files...  yeah.  no. but i should warn you, i'm experiencing violent impulses.  you know, sometimes, it just gets really hard to smile through it when they ask you to bend down and grab your ankles. you know?  no. no, i've been thinking a lot about that lately. i've been thinking about leaving.  pursue my work in the paranormal somehow.  they don't want us working together, scully... and right now, that's the only reason i can think of to stay.  it's a zero.  they transferred it to our forensics lab. look, scully, i know what you're trying to do.  it's an exercise. skinner is just rubbing my nose in this one. there's nothing to it.  yeah. 
 i don't know, maybe you can tell me. 
 attacked? by what?  what's his condition? 
 what kind of wound?  any idea what attacked you?  a python?  oh, excuse me. mulder. what is it? 
 well, i'm up in jersey. i should be taking the shuttle down in about an hour.   oh, excuse me, sorry. scully, this is a bad time for me to talk. yeah. 
 who is this? 
 yeah?  okay, go ahead. 
 this was living inside the body?  lovely.  this isn't where you tell me some terrible story about sushi, is it?  so, what, the murder weapon was a top sirloin?  before or after he died?  how do these parasites attach themselves?  anything like this?  something attacked a workman in a new jersey sewer this morning.  could it be?  how big can these things get? 
 well, that's good. i didn't want to have to tell skinner that his murder suspect was a giant, blood-sucking worm. 
 well, at the very least, this will be interesting to the newark department of sanitation. look, scully, i don't know who you shared our conversation with the other night, but i'd prefer if you didn't try to launch a campaign for me. i don't know who you talked to...  well, somebody called me and told me i had a friend at the f.b.i. 
 what part of the sewer was i in?  they look more like a catacomb than a sewer line.  and all the sewage comes through this plant?  have you ever seen one of these?  it's called a fluke. it came from the body they pulled out of the sewer.  what is it?  scully, it's me. you know that fluke you caught?  it must have been the runt of the litter. 
 there it is. tucked away in the far corner, behind the pipes. 
 i don't know if you can see it from here, but it has no sex organs. it's genderless. 
 i don't know, but it looks like i'm going to have to tell skinner that his suspect is a giant, blood-sucking worm after all. the only thing we're missing is the identity of the body in the sewer.
 how did you make the connection at all? 
 well, that's just an unexpected response, considering the bizarre nature of the case... and of the suspect.  there's no way you'll prosecute this.  this is not a man. it's a monster. you can't put it in an institution.  two?  you know, you had a pair of agents that could have handled a case like this. agent scully and i might have been able to save that man's life, but you shut us down.  what do you got?  watch all the storm drains, any access to the sewer system. it's going to try to get back underground. mulder.
 who am i speaking to?  yes. why is it imperative? 
 the tanker.  what if he's on the tanker truck? 
 so he could have already been here and gone?  and every tanker dumps it's load here?  everything is processed through this plant?  then what happens to it?  could this thing have escaped through that outlet pipe?  guess all we can do is wait. mulder. i'm at the treatment plant. i was playing a hunch it might have gotten back into the system.  forget it, it's stupid. 
 why not?  you mean it's trying to reproduce? 
 yeah...  i know, scully. it could multiply.  where? 
 that's near where we found the first body.  that must be where it got into the system. it's working it's way back out to sea.mmm...
 let's see if we can get that gate closed. 
 hey! 
 you all right?  give me your hand!  we need some help down here! hey!i'll get you out of here!hold on! hold on! you all right? you all right?
 no. but i should warn you, i may reek a bit out of the sewer.  success in our work is imperative, scully. reinstatement of the x-files must be undeniable.  no. we have a friend in the f.b.i.  human?  how does that happen?  i know these. these are from chernobyl.  you know, they say three species disappear off the planet every day. you wonder how many new ones are being created. 
separator perpetrators of mass murders are divided into two classifications... the spree killer and the serial. the sudden violent outburst in a public locale and the suspect's disregard for anonymity or survival define the franklin incidents as spree killings. i find no evidence of this to be the case. the single, connecting trace evidence to the killings is the destruction of an electronic device at the crime scene.a pager, a fax machine, a cellular phone, a gas pump digital display.in all honesty, scully, i've never had a more difficult time developing a profile.there is no way to know who will be a killer... or who will be killed. uh, pardon my rubber.  they are connected. imagine being one of those flies on the wall of the oval office.  it was a fine effort, though. have you ever come across this chemical compound?
 oh, i'm sorry, boys. it arrived the same day as my subscription to "celebrity skin." 
 she wouldn't come. she's afraid of her love for you.  you know, frohike, it's men like you that give perversion a bad name. 
 why won't they release it? is it possible it affects humans in the same way?  hey, frohike, can i borrow those?  i saw the chopper from two different locations. look at my skin, feel my hair. the insecticide is still on me.  don't start with that tired crap. don't start diverting blame.  look, if you're the one responsible for the illegal spraying, then the sooner you take responsibility, the sooner people will stop dying. the killers all resided near heavily sprayed areas.  yeah, well, if it's so safe, why was it done in secret?  by who? who proved it to you? 
 scully, your own autopsy reported the killer had chemical anomalies.  scully. are you familiar with subliminal messages?  no, it's a fact that some department stores use subliminal messages in their ambient music to deter shoplifting. and the russians have been using advanced electroensephelographic techniques to control behavior.  electronic devices were destroyed by every perpetrator. 
 the insecticide l.s.d.m. is known to invoke a fear response in cluster flies. what if the chemical causes the same reaction in humans? all the perpetrators were phobic. taber was claustrophobic. mcroberts' husband stated she had a paranoia about rape. the insecticide heightened their already existing phobia to an unbearable level. then the electronic devices relayed messages that told them specifically what to do with their fear in order to alleviate it. the messages were relayed purposely.  yeah, he's probably one of those people that thinks elvis is dead.  i think this area is being subjected to a controlled experiment.  they've done it before. d.d.t. in the 50's, agent orange, germ warfare on unsuspecting neighborhoods.  fear. it's the oldest tool of power. if you're distracted by fear of those around you, it keeps you from seeing the actions of those above. 
 but?  only seven more to go. 
 frustrated jehovah's witness? 
 edward funsch, age fifty-two. no diploma, no vehicle or driver's license, navy radio man, wife died ten years ago. no kids. no known family, just been laid-off. medical history? when was the blood tester here?  ten-thirty? the blood test. i know what he's afraid of... and i know where he's going. here it comes.  have you seen this man? 
 where'd you let him out?  i don't think he's waiting. 
separator the article makes no mention of the fire.  grissoms company had a number of government contracts which would place this investigation within the bureaus jurisdiction.  i think that the circumstances surrounding grissoms death warrant a closer look. i called nypd but they wont even talk to me unless i get the attorney general to sign off on it.  my source, the only one i have ever trusted, is dead.  yeah.  theres a mistake here. theres been another agent assigned to the case.  skinner didnt say anything about taking on a new partner.  and you all ready talked to the police?  i heard the tape.  but no trace of a fire.  that all you know?  listen, i appreciate the show and tell, and i dont want you to take this personally, but i work alone. ill straighten things out with skinner.  all right, ill tell you what, i got a little work to finish up around here. why dont you go down to the motor pool and requisition us a car and ill meet you down there.  its your party.  national airport. catching the shuttle up to laguardia in a half an hour. how do you feel about joining me in the big apple for an autopsy.  i was hoping you could tell me. scully: i cant do it today. my last class isnt until 4:30. thats fine. i can have the me wrap the body to go  youll get it by five.  how many other kinds of sleep disorder did he treat?  maintaining that kind of batting average must have taken its toll.  did he ever show any signs of psychological stress?  but he was never delusional.  whats his story?  how do you do that?  so its actually possible to alter somebodys dreams?  im sorry if i hurt your feelings.  exactly.  oh stop it, or youll hurt my feelings.  yeah.  what is it?  i can make it in two hours. mulder reaches for the door. krycek holds up the keys. spleen or pancreas?  this is alex krycek. were, uh, working the case together.  like fire?  any theories?  what?  so, why did your friend from homicide call us.  so what does the me have to say about it?  whats this scar right here?  well, unless they got to his appendix through his neck.  willig was a marine? so where do all marines receive basic training on the east coast?  where grissom was stationed from 1968 to 1971.  here we go. willig was assigned to special forces on re-con squad j-7. of thirteen original members, hes one of two survivors.  this leaves us with one person who can tell us what happened on parris island. we just want to ask him a few questions about his military service.  is that why you put him in isolation?  how was he interfering?  excuse me, but exactly how would cole disrupt their sleep?  lets get coles face onto the wire. mulders cell phone rings. mulder.  who are you?  why are you trying to help me?  what is this?  of course. someone was conducting sleep deprivation experiments on parris island.  why?  and willig and cole were the lab rats.  you think coles behind whats happening now?  i thought cole was the last.  so how do i contact you?  i may still need more.  is he alive?  well, that second officer is still in a coma, so i dont think we can count on him to give us an answer.  well, the military all ready sent troops to radioactive mushroom clouds, i guess they figured they had to top themselves, right?  well, i learned something at dr. grissoms clinic. about what happens to a persons cortex when you stimulate it with electricity.  well, what if that stimulus were to come from a remote source? what if cole had somehow developed the ability to project his unconscious.  think about it, scully. in all those years without rem sleep, maybe cole built a bridge between the waking world and the dream world. a collective unconscious. and what if, by existing consciously in the unconscious world, he developed the ability to externalize his dreams and effectively alter reality.  all right, ill sharpen my pencils and ill see you later. krycek beckons towards mulder. ill be right there, krycek.  were gonna check out another member of the squad and see if he can tell us anything about cole.  hes all right. he could use a little more seasoning and some wardrobe advice but hes a lot more open to extreme possibilities then. . .  . . .then i assumed he would be.  oh yeah, its---its great. im surprised i put up with you so long.  okay. hangs up phone. salvatore matola?  were with the fbi. we just want to ask you some questions. whyd you think we were gonna kill you?  you know about willig and grissom.  who? hey sal, can you spare a few minutes?  and you never got tired?  serotonin?  how long did this go on?  well, then who did you take orders from?  we suspect that augustus cole may be behind the murders of willig and grissom.  but why grissom. he was never in country, he wasnt even part of the squadron.  whos gerardi?  were going after gerardi. cole sees himself as a kind of avenging angel. in his mind, everyone responsible for the atrocities, whether directly or indirectly, must be punished.  phu bai was one of the bloodiest massacres of the war. over 300 children slaughtered. but unlike my lai, no us troops were ever charged. the 24th anniversary of the massacre was two days ago. mulders cell phone rings. mulder.  do you have his number in boston? scully: yes, except hes coming to new york for grissoms funeral, tonight. hes arriving at bronx station on the 7:30 train. try to have a photograph waiting for us at the security desk so we know who were looking for, okay?  stay here, ill cover you on the side. mulder thinks he sees gerardi.. federal agent! drop your weapon. mulder fires four shots.krycek runs towards him. gerardi! where is he?  i saw him.  no, gerardi was here, and so was cole. we just missed them.  okay, theres nothing here. start with a small window of time, say 1935 to 1945. if you dont find anything in that time frame, then open it up one minute at a time. with all these cameras, we should be able to see something.  whats the problem.  i told you, i thought i saw gerardi.  all right, what do you want to know.  its just that my ideas usually arent very popular.  i think that cole possesses the psychic ability to manipulate sounds and images to generate illusions that are so convincing they can kill. hows that for a theory.  yeah.  where is this.  hes still alive. put pressure on the wound on the back of his neck and radio for help. now!  step away from the edge. corporal cole, im a federal agent, now please, step back.  thats not why im here. im putting down my gun. i just want to talk to you for a few minutes, after that, youre free to do whatever you want.  i know.  one minute is all im asking.  what the military did to you was wrong, but your testimony can help.  krycek put down the gun and get out of here. krycek, i said put down the gun and get out of here! krycek sees cole raising a gun. when mulder looks over, he sees cole raising his bible. no!!!!!! krycek fires his gun twice, killing cole. you did the right thing. mulder reaches under his car seat to find that the file is gone. he goes to scullys office. someone went through a lot of trouble stealing both our copies to keep this a secret.  he said its never been more dangerous.  no, the man who leaked us the report. the one whos been helping us.  he said that closing down the x-files was just the beginning. that weve never been in greater danger. separator krycek, what's up? 
 what kind of situation?  and they want me?  what for? 
 duane?  this is special agent fox mulder. look, i want to try to help you.
 i think i know what you're going through, duane. i just want to make sure you get what you want and that... bob, kimberly and gwen and doctor hakkie don't get hurt.
 i know you're scared, duane, and that you'd like to see this all come out right. 
 we're only concerned about your safety, duane. you and the others. 
 you need someone to trust, duane. i know a lot of people who have been through similar experiences. nobody's going to try anything, duane. who is this guy? he's f.b.i., isn't he? and you didn't think to mention that?  the point being that the bureau wants to minimize it's embarrassment, isn't that it? that we can police our own.  well, you're off to a hell of a start.  well, if you just wanted somebody to come down and read the script, you didn't have to bring me out.  no, no, that man is afraid. and the only way you're going to win his trust is by trying to understand what he's afraid of. have you ever spoken to an abductee, agent kazdin? heard them talk about having their brains sucked out through their nostril while being wide awake through the experience? would you like to know what they do to a woman's ovaries?
 well, then understand that you might have to alter your approach a little bit here. 
 it's me. i'm in virginia.  what's the media saying?  well, what they're not telling you is that he's former f.b.i. who also claims to be an alien abductee.  yeah, his name's duane barry. look, scully, i need your help. i need you to find out what happened to him. anything, transcripts from therapy sessions, hypnotic regressions...anything about his abduction experience.
 the lights just went out here.   what's the number there?  duane? 
 is everybody all right, duane?  no, i, i believe you. i just need to know if... ...anybody's been shot.
 yeah. 
 don't jump into his delusion. i can't negotiate with him if he thinks i believe him.  duane?  we're unarmed. we just want to help the injured. no.  no. we're just here to help.  nobody's going to try anything, duane.  we just want to make sure no one else gets hurt. 
 they want to work with you, duane, but you got to work with them. why not let the others go?  then let the women go. were they here, duane? the light... was that them? well, we lost time. i checked my watch. isn't that what happens? time stops. isn't it? duane?
 isn't that what they've been saying to you, duane? that you're making it up?  i hear you, duane.  no. i believe your story. 
 i know you're afraid. i know the pain and the fear you must feel.  i've talked to people, duane. people just like you, and nobody wanted to believe. 
 why don't you let him go, duane? there's no reason this man has to die. come on, duane. you've got the power. let him go. 
 good. you made the right choice. now, we're just going to move him carefully to the door.  i'm telling the truth, duane.  it happened to my sister.  how does it happen, duane? driving in your car? alone in bed at night? when do they come to you? you're paralyzed, aren't you? unable to move. sometimes, you can't even breathe. you feel an electric shock go through your body... ...and then they're there. there are beings, aren't there, duane? are they tall or small?  diminutive... they take you, duane, against your will. you're powerless. sometimes, you can't even speak. it's always the same, nobody can help you. where do they take you, duane? is there a ship? do they take you to a ship, duane? how do you get there? are you conscious or being transported? 
 that's right. abductees call it "mindscan." it's a kind of telepathy.  they take you aboard the ship to perform the tests. 
 she was eight.  what are they doing to them?  are they hurting them?  you can let the others go, duane. let the others go and take me. 
 i don't care about that, duane.  who in the government?  you're going to have to deal with resolving this situation, duane... sooner or later.  there's no other way out. you've got to tell them what you want to do.  what place?  where is that? 
 how do they find you each time?  why not let the women go, duane? they'll deal with you if you let the women go.  the women are of no consequence to you. let them go. it's the right thing to do, duane.  what do you want, duane? a car?  do you know where you want to go?  duane, you can't leave here if you don't know where you want to go. duane! come here. 
 there... there's something i want to ask you.  you didn't believe me. i had to earn your trust. now, there's something i got to know. are you making any of this up? 
 no...  no, i don't. i'm sorry.  duane, will you listen to me for a second? 
 duane...  duane, i do believe you.  i believe you!  no! i believe you, duane! 
 can i say... can i say something? duane, can i say something? i know you're tired, but there's something you've forgotten to do. when you let the women leave, you left the door unlocked. go lock the door, duane. go lock the door. go lock the door, duane. go lock it. they could get in here. go lock the door.   yeah.  it's just that, uh... i believed him.  no, i was surprised to get your call.  i don't know, i guess i thought maybe you called me down here to chew me out. how's he doing? the fine thread of sanity.  it was right where he said it would be, scully. along with the ones in his gums and sinus. 
 well, if it was, that would mean duane barry is telling the truth. separator mrs. scully? she's not in there. there's a question of how he could've gotten to her in the first place.  agent scully was carrying a small piece of metal that was removed from duane barry's abdomen, an implant he described as a tracking device.  yes, but that still doesn't explain how he could have found her. 
 i don't know. he talked about a mountain but he wasn't specific about the location.  i'd like to brief them myself...  sir, i know duane barry. i've been in his head, i know how he thinks...  sir...  right there.  back it up a few frames. can you magnify this area?
 she's still alive. print this up. 
 i'm fine.  no, i said i'm fine. 
 did they estimate how many people are put to sleep listening to their statistics?  look, i know you think we should have told skinner but if he sends in the whole cavalry, duane barry might go over the edge.  if we find him first, we'll notify the bureau. all right?  well, that's the easiest explanation. it's also the most implausible.  somebody could have given him her address. i don't know who. 
 did he have a woman with him?  you gotta get me up there.  i don't have the time.  no, you don't have a choice. (he pulls back his overcoat to reveal his gun. he unhooks the holster. the tram operator looks at him warily. inside the control booth, the operator turns a key and the machinery starts. he then flips a switch.) stay here and whatever happens, don't let him stop the tram. (he walks over to the panel.) go ahead.  you're breaking up.  what are you doing? turn it back on. krycek, what's happening down there? (krycek takes out his cell phone, raises the antenna and starts dialing.)krycek, do you read me? tell the operator to restart the tram. hello?(the phone rings. we can still hear mulder intelligibly.) is there an emergency system on-board? can you read me down there? can anyone read me? (he puts down the transmitter and goes to a small compartment. he takes off the lid and throws away a tag that says "screamer suit." he pulls out a harness, and throws it down. he pulls down a ladder and climbs on top of the tram. krycek looks at the monitor in awe as the sky grows dark. mulder starts to climb up. krycek turns the key then flips the switch. the tram restarts, throwing mulder nearly off the tram. he grabs on to the side of the roof and pulls himself up, narrowly avoiding the next tower. the tram reaches the end and comes to a halt. krycek sighs. mulder runs over up the hill and comes to barry's car. the driver's side door is open. he looks in with the flashlight and sees the car is empty. the radio is playing and a woman is talking intelligibly. he notices blood on the steering wheel. he pops the trunk and opens it up. it is empty, except for a bloody rope and a necklace with a cross on it. he takes the cross and hears a noise. he looks up and sees a giant light beaming down from something. the object then speeds off. duane's laughing can be heard. mulder races over to him and points his gun.) federal agent! (duane stands and holds his hands up in the air in triumph. mulder runs towards him, keeping his gun on him.) freeze!  i said freeze! where is she?  don't move. (duane laughs insanely as mulder grabs his wrists and pulls them behind his back.)don't move! where is she? where'd you leave her?  who?  now what happened after you took her out of the trunk?  then where'd you take her?   did you kill her?  how'd you get this?  what ship?  i saw a helicopter.  sit down, duane.  duane, settle down!  did you hurt her?  did you hurt her!?  what is this? 
 yeah.  no, he's giving me nothing. were you out here alone?  nobody goes in or out of that room. 
 what are you doing in there?  come here. 
 no one...  no one!  no one is to interrogate the suspect.  except me. did you ask him about scully?  what'd he say?  yes, sir.  what happened?  duane? duane? duane!  i didn't kill him, if that's what you're suggesting.  i was interrogating him about agent scully. he wasn't cooperating so i pushed him.  momentarily. but then i left the room. he was very much alive, i spoke to him. agent krycek spoke to him. 
 is agent krycek asserting that i killed him too?  there is another plausible cause of death.  poisoning by injection or ingestion. 
 you won't find that on the navy pathologist's report.  that the autopsy is incomplete. that the military covered up the toxicological findings.  because they know where scully is.  oh, i don't know. maybe it's because i find it hard to trust anybody. 
 alex? alex, can i borrow your car keys?  there's someone i've got to see.  i know, just give me the car keys please. thanks.
 what? 
 why? do they have something on him?  i need his help.  your predecessor could have helped me. oh... you know, don't you? you know what's happened to her.
 i want an answer!  you mean the government?  so long as it's true.  it goes on. 
 yes, sir.  i found this in agent krycek's car. he doesn't smoke. agent krycek was the last person with duane barry before he died. he was also the last person to see the tram operator before he disappeared. when i got to the top of skyline mountain, i saw an unmarked helicopter working the area. i believe that agent krycek gave away the whereabouts of duane barry and agent scully to whoever he's working with.  i don't know, the military? some covert organization within the government? whoever it is that man who smokes those cigarettes works for.  because agent scully got too close to whatever it is they're trying to deny. because she had hard and damning evidence, that metallic implant in her possession. or because her termination would prevent further involvement with me and my work.  i don't know. how far do you think they'd go? what do you know about agent krycek? that's it? he's gone, he just disappears into the woodwork?  who are these people who can just murder with impunity and we can't do anything about it?  like hell.  what can you do about it?  i'm sorry i don't have better news.  we don't know anything more about her.  it's probably scarier when you stop having the dream. don't you think? i found this.it's something i... i never considered about her. if she was... if she was such a skeptic, why did she wear that? don't you want to keep it? 
separator  agent mulder. im with the bureau.  they should have.   theres no time for agency rivalries. i dont care about credit for the arrest or what goes on whose record. in the past year these killers have murdered six people in two states. they only kill at night. by the end of the week, two more people will be dead and they will be gone.  theres a file on the previous murders. ive studied it. ive studied them. ive been waiting three months for them to reappear.  the wire reported a body was found drained of blood, bite marks on the exterior jugular and median cubital veins. every mirror in the house was smashed.  theres writings on the wall written in the victims blood. 
 "he who eats of my flesh and drinks of my blood shall have eternal life and i will raise him up on the last day." they have the same feeble grasp of the bible as all those big-haired preachers do. the victim was he a father?  in memphis, they murdered james ellis, 58, father of ellis and sons clothiers. the second victim was a korean woman -- linda sun. the third victim was a jesuit theologian. excuse me.  in portland, three months ago the first victim was a priest. the second victim was the only son of a family of six children. the last victim was the owner of a new age book shop --- the holy spirit.  i believe thats how they perceive themselves, as a kind of unholy trinity.  they use these to extract blood and store it for a quick fix later. their need is insatiable, but murdering for blood risks exposure and capture. if my profile of the previous cases holds true, theyve been living in the city and working near blood products for the past month.  im working alone.   i only need one thing.  yeah, hi. this is marty mulder from your payroll service. i have a question regarding the w -4 form of a recent employee.   when was he hired?  federal agent!  federal agent! freeze! 
 that better?  what are you?  and the three of you killed garret lore.  your fingerprints were found at the crime scene.  frogs eat flies. are you dead?  do you believe that?   well, not if drawstring pants come back into style.  its a stiff price, though. look at yourself drinking blood, living in darkness, unable to see your reflection in a mirror. or is that just a myth? 
 its more likely ill be looking in your eyes at the moment before they lead you into the gas chamber. thats a moment you wont have to face if you tell me where the others are.  well, if you are what you say you are, i know what can kill you. itd be easy to cover those windows. just tell me where the other two are. in another couple of hours, therell be no escaping the sun. son. 
 if he wants to talk, cover the windows and call me.   that man is clearly delusional but i get the sense that not even he believes his claims. for now, weve got to play along with his beliefs. im hoping the sunlight will give him an excuse to talk.  i didnt check into a hotel room. i dont sleep anymore. 
 the guards found no flammable materials? i had believed that this mans illness was psychological.  im familiar with porphyria. its an affliction which causes lesions and blisters when skin is exposed to sunlight, not fourth degree burns. sufferers may have a hema deficiency which can be supplemented by a small ingestion of blood, not the kind of bloodthirst this man had. its probably ignorance of porphyria as a disease that led to the creation of vampire myths in asia in the middle ages. i had dismissed the possibility of the actual existence of such a creature as myth.  when will you get the blood tests back?   whats this purple stain here?  can you read it? dr. browning: it is possible that the heat burned the ink permanently into the lower levels of the skin.  an old coroners trick. i can make a quarter appear from behind your ear. 
  how do you define normal?  i dont. all i know is, uh .. normal is not what i feel.  he who drinks my blood  how do you know?  i need to know. 
  aids. arent you afraid?   father. the sun. 
  i dont want to bias your report, but i need a preliminary examination for anything unnatural.  check these prints immediately. one will be the victims. the other should be the woman were looking for. 
 the unholy spirit. has blood in it. 

  shes gone, and shes not coming back. special agent fox mulder.  federal bureau of investigation. theyre after you.  the bread. legends in eastern european countries. its said that one can protect oneself eating bread filled with blood. you were protecting yourself.  i think its best if i took you into protective custody. theyll kill once more. theyll try to kill you.  what i believe you to be. 
  you were in memphis and portland when the other murders occurred. how are you connected?  but they followed you. they want you.  thats from someone i lost.  the one you lost, john, hes dead. but theyve picked up another. theyre three again. kristen, youll be safer if you come back to the police station with me.  then i wont go.  yeah? 
 no mirrors.  that makes this hard.  its not who you are. it doesnt make you happy. 
  are they here?   my cars down the hill.  you have to get your things.  come on. 
  are you all right?  ill go. 

 the remains? separator who...?  who brought her here?  how did she get here?   how did she get here?  is that daly?  are you dr. daly?  whats going on? how the hell did she get here?  was it, was it paramedics, fbi, military? answer me right now!   what, youre telling me she just appeared?  who did this to her!?  i want to see her admission forms. who did this to her? i want to see what tests have been done!  listen, if youre hiding anything, i swear, i will do anything, whatever it takes, i will find out what they did to her! id like her examined for trace evidence.   she doesnt want to live in this condition.  by who?  dana talked to you just now? if she talked, the eeg would have moved.   youre scullys sister.  shes not here.  i need to do more than just wave my hands in the air. 
 frohike?   theres plenty of room down there. (frohike looks at him and sits down on the desk next to byers.)  im doing my laundry.  what?  branched dna?  whats it used for?  you mean a high-tech identity card?  will she live? (byers looks at mulder, then at langly, who looks back solemnly.)  hey!   there was a man, he took scullys blood.  get that gun out of my face...  you ignore my call for help and then you expect me to do what you say? you go to hell!  what the hell are you talking about?  i owe her more than just sitting around doing nothing.  shes not dead.   okay, then tell me. tell me!   federal agent!  federal agent, dont turn around. you know im armed. put your gun very slowly on the ground.  put your hands behind your head and interlock your fingers. turn right towards the machine and put your head on it.  face me.  who wants this? who wants it?  all right, lets go. this way.   wait!   its possible branched dna can be treated with designer antibiotics.  youve never provided an answer as to why shes here or whats wrong with her. we need to study her.  shes here because of unnatural circumstances.  thats very politically correct.  is this about the tooth that was found in the cafeteria jello?  no, sir.  i was with scully.  may i see the police report?  since i am unfamiliar with any such incident, sir, no, how would i know that?  hows it feel? constant denial of everything, questions answered with a question.  him. thats what happened.  cancer man! hes responsible for what happened to scully!  its a rumor. who is he?  oh, you can have it all, you can have my badge, you can have the x-files, just tell me where he is.  thats what i want.  what if i... i knew the potential consequences but i... i never told her?  including myself?   no. sorry, i dont.   sit down!   shut up! tonight, i ask the questions! youre going to answer me, you son of a bitch!  why her? why her and not me?  answer me!  you should be the one to die.    right? who are you to decide whats right?  im here. 
 how you feeling?  doesnt... doesnt matter.  brought you a present.  "superstars of the super bowl."  i know you want to get some rest, i... just came by to see... how you were doing and say hi.   i was holding this for you.  separator it's no mean claim.  and you think his luck just ran out?  whoa! what the hell is that?  why weren't you up there?  do you think he's responsible for what happened?   we're not exactly proper channels.   scully? i don't think it's a good idea for you to go.  well, maybe you should take some time off.  we'll look around out here after we've checked inside.  hello? 
 looks like somebody wanted to put this operation permanently out of commission. 
 he just about took my head off!  well, who the hell are you?  you always greet people this way?  well, who did you think i was that you thought you had to protect yourself?  no, we're with the fbi.  after we've investigated what happened here. 
 did he kill erikson?   are these his notes?  scully? what do you make of mr. trepkos' neighborhood?  don't you think their behavior is a little bizarre, almost paranoid?  they're practically climbing the walls in there.  no, there's more than that ... something they're not telling us.  based on when ludwig tried to play tee-ball with my head. he knew i wasn't trepkos.  pierce knows these people. let's find out what he thinks.   let me help you.  we can't leave, scully. not yet.  trepkos is still out there.  i've been going over trepkos' work, fragments mostly but i found several references to a subterranean organism.  an unknown organism, existing within the volcano. i haven't found anything yet that describes it in specific terms but ... 
  what does this say?  doesn't that suggest a silicon-based life form?  yes, but silicon is the closest element to carbon. it reacts almost identically with other elements, the way it combines to form complex molecules. a silicon-based lifeform in the deep biosphere has been one of the holy grails of modern science and maybe trepkos found it.  trepkos said he had physical evidence. it's got to be around here somewhere. 
 maybe it wasn't trepkos who destroyed it. what if it was one of the others?  what caused that tremor?   you feeling all right?  you know, agent scully is a medical doctor. you should let her take a look at you.  why don't you just let her take a look ...  i'll go get scully. 
 he just collapsed after the tremor. he seems pretty bad. 
 what is it?  what about trepkos? we can't just leave him.   got him?  tanaka!  don't go down there!  don't go down there!  so what is it, scully? what are we dealing with?  i'll take any theory you've got.  anything you recognize?  what am i looking at here?  that would account for the sand in his lungs.  silicon dioxide, the waste product of a silicon-based organism.  come on, scully, how else do you explain the sand in his lungs - the best trace evidence we could ask for. trepkos was right.  he discovered the spore in the samples firewalker brought up.  not if what he discovered was too disturbing even for him to understand.   search and rescue, this is agent mulder. do you copy?   please notify fbi district headquarters in spokane that our party is quarantining itself due to possible contagion. have cdc set up an evacuation unit on high alert.   tell them it's a biological agent ... of unknown origin.  i'm going to go find trepkos.  then he'll have a tough time answering my questions. i've got to find out what he knows. what he's found could change everything we understand about the origin and evolution of life.  then i have to find out why. 
  no.  you have to finish the autopsy on tanaka. hopefully, that will give us a better idea of what we're dealing with, whatever it is.  i'm counting on you to keep us all from ending up on that slab. 

  i could use a little help.  directions, contour map, usgs survey, anything that can help me get here. 
 firewalker. they were transmitted right before trepkos destroyed its camera.  well, how will i find them?   a guide.  well, why are you so eager to help me find him?  whatever i'm smelling, is it toxic?  how far does the cave extend?  why are you doing this, trepkos? he's already dead. how many times do you have to kill him? (mulder looks down and sees a large bulge moving around in ludwig's neck. trepkos prepares to set off another flare.) what went wrong, trepkos? firewalker carried something back to the surface.  what about you? what do you say it is?  like the spore?  i'm special agent mulder. i'm with the fbi.  i came down here to investigate erikson's death.  i just want to know what happened after the first descent. what did you find?  erikson released the spore?  what about erikson? if he was infected ...  what do you mean?  but you weren't infected?  you destroyed your work, the transmitting equipment, you killed pierce so no one could leave.  what about o'neil?  was she exposed to the spore?  i have a colleague - a friend - who's with o'neil right now. let me go to her.  then you're going to have to shoot me. because i'm walking out of here. (at the station, scully continues to work at the microscope. the lights suddenly go out. scully grabs a flashlight and starts toward the living quarters.) (in the distance) scully! (he bursts into the laboratory.) scully!  are you all right?  erikson was the original host. when the fungus shed its spores, everyone was at ground zero except for trepkos.  (to radio) search and rescue, this is agent mulder. do you copy?  (to radio) we have two survivors, agent scully and myself.  it's all over, scully. he won't talk. (later, the army biohazard crew is decontaminating the station and also putting notebooks and other records into biohazard containers.) (voice-over) scully and i are in the third day of a month-long quarantine, undergoing level 4 decon procedures. we are so far without symptoms of fungal contamination. all our specimens and field notes were confiscated by the military biohazard corps prior to our evacuation. their presence has delayed for an indefinite period the arrival of the usgs data retrieval team. i suspect, though, that there will be little left for them to retrieve. there are no plans at present to explore further any of the hundreds of volcanically active mountains in the cascade range, including mount avalon. all access points to that volcano have been sealed off by army engineers. (trepkos is carrying o'neil's body down the entrance incline into the steam caves and then to the firewalker area.) (voice-over, continued) of the members of the firewalker descent team, only trepkos and o'neil remain unaccounted for. they are presumed dead, and the search for them has been abandoned. firewalker, however, was recovered, though its sensory and locomotive systems were found to be irreparably damaged. the data it collected from the earth's interior will never be known. and of the events that occurred at mount avalon between the 11th and 13th of november, 1994, mine stands as the only record.separator gary kane, 16 years old, high school junior. "c" student, first-string varsity football, member of the local 4-h club. not one of wisconsin's more remarkable kids but still the apple of his mother's eye.  nobody knows.  the victim received a phone call and left his home. he was discovered in the woods in his underwear twelve hours later. he's been unable to give a coherent statement.  no.  the other victims have had to be sedated and hospitalized since their ordeals. they were reportedly hysterical with fear. 
 one in eastern wisconsin, one three towns away. both with the same black words written in black magic marker. the local sheriff in delta glen, wisconsin thinks he knows what's been happening to these kids.  he thinks they've been possessed. probably went over big with the local ranchers. 
 they're walk-ins.  they're believers in soul transference, enlightened spirits who have taken possession of other peoples bodies.  which parts are those?  when you say spirit, gary, i'm not sure what you mean.  and you don't remember who called you? anything at all about what happened immediately after you left home that night?have you ever had any dealings with anyone from the church of the red museum? do you have any reason to believe that they may be involved with what happened to you? 
 scully, we'll meet you outside. 
 has this boy ever been in any trouble?  yeah.  you see a noticeable difference in him?  the red museum... how are they treated by the local citizens? 
 well, are they ever singled out? shop owners refusing to sell to them, stuff like that?  uh, can you recommend a good motel in the area?  well, i, i want to run a background check on the church and this guy  well, it, it's kind of a new age religion based on an old idea. that if you, uh, lose hope or despair and want to leave this mortal coil, you become open and vulnerable.  a new enlightened spirit. according to the literature, abe lincoln was a walk-in. and mikhail gorbachev and charles colson, nixon's advisor.  no. not even they want to claim nixon.  i don't know. in the absence of any other plausible explanation... it's a novel theory.  really?  i think the sperm posse just rode into town. 
 hey, leave him alone! leave him alone.go home. go ahead, go home.
 you got a problem?  i see four against one. i got a problem. 
 who's your dad?  yeah, i think he would like to hear about this.  yeah, eddie, this is all good stuff. yeah, see what else you can find on him from the n.c.i.c. and call me back. at, at this number or on my cellular. 
 what'd you find? 
 is that the stuff they use for motion sickness?  is it a controlled substance?  i'll drive. 
 i'm special agent fox mulder. we're with the federal bureau of investigation. we'd like to speak to richard odin. is he in?  richard odin?  we'd like to ask you some questions. may we come inside? 
 well, how's that?  we can always determine that elsewhere. can you step outside, please, sir? can you step outside, mr. odin? we're placing you under arrest. just answer the question, mister odin.  do your religious beliefs preclude you from exacting revenge, either physically or psychically, on those who might not share them?  sheriff...i've already had to go through this once with your kid. can you just take a walk?  you know, for a holy man, you've got quite a knack for pissing people off. 
 in what way?  the growth hormone.  did you know him?  looks like the doctor may have been delivering more than babies.  any clue what this is about?  well, wherever he was coming from, i'd say that was one hell of a house call.  scully? you're not going to believe this. 
 yeah, the print-outs we found in the briefcase were mostly shipping orders along with a list of credit card numbers, each number corresponding to a card in the victim's family.  i don't know. maybe to track them the way credit card companies track stolen cards?  what was he treating them with?  i know that was the first thing through both of our minds, scully, but it just doesn't track. not with that briefcase full of cash.  gary was never sick.  did you ever take gary to another doctor?  excuse me? what is this? 
 this light here.  there's something back there. 
 looks like somebody's private little movie studio.  what is it?  what? where's gary?  go pack some clothes, things you need. you're all coming with me. 
 i'll explain later. those credit card numbers, every kid's family that was listed. get them packed up. call out every man you've got. i need your help. 
 it may offend your religious sensibilities but it could help save some kids' lives. stop right there! hey!
 hey! get him out of here. get everyone out of here!
separator whatever tape you found in that vcr, it isnt mine.  well, this definitely isnt mine.  what happened to her?  where did you get this? violent crimes?  why not?  i have several x-files that document similar cases.  scully: i know. ive been here since 6:00 this morning going through them. well, then you none of them have ever been substantiated.  given the emotional and psychological violence of rape, the face or identity of the attacker is often blurred or erased from memory. that he could be perceived as invisible is a logical leap for me.  why?  miss charters, the facts of your case seem to contravene those of other cases we have on file.  how do you know it was him who attacked you?  thats right.  thank you for sharing. are you aware youre being named in a lawsuit against the federal government?   its all right. there seems to be some confusion here.   apparently not.   about the guys plumbing?  i think this will turn out to be a huge waste of time just like all the other x-files on entity rape. unsubstantiated phenomena.  we met with a patient today.  we met a *resident* who was described to us as having alzheimers but he actually seemed quite spry and alert.  ms. dawson, did you get a chance to see michelle after the incident? to see the extent of her injuries?  then you know how badly she was hurt.  in your opinion, do you think she staged the attack? 
 come on, hal.  so he was actually getting better?   is he receiving the same treatments as hal arden?  may i sit down, leo?    come on, scully. lets get out of here. 
  if it would keep anybody out of a place like that it would be important enough. i wouldnt say those people were exactly cured.  well, i hope someones making some progress cause were going home with a big goose egg.  checking out of room 206 and 210, please.  between the rape case and the alzheimers?  when theyre not drawing childlike pictures theyre brutal sex offenders?  you think that michelle charters was raped by an 74-year-old schizophrenic?  an *invisible* 74-year-old schizophrenic?  are you saying that the buildings haunted?  if you are, youve been working with me for too long, scully.  why wouldnt it have affected the other residents?  i-i think youre looking too hard, scully, for something thats not there. i think michelle charters concocted this story to get out of a job she hates.  he doesnt seem to need much assistance now. has his improvement been that pronounced?  do you have any idea why?  give me your hand. come on.  grab it. 

 but its your mushroom crop, isnt it?  who else would have buried him there?  why?  makes them feel better, or it kills them?  all right, gung, who killed the orderly? who buried him in that room?  how are the mushrooms taken?  well, i think the first thing we should do is make sure nobody else takes them.  you, check on the other patients. gung, come with me. lets go. 
 i think youre right, scully.  whats been happening is the result of the medication, but not the medication the doctors been giving them.  shamans have used them for centuries to gain entrance to the spirit world.  ask any anthropologist then.  i dont know how else to explain whats happening here.  and raped michelle charters and killed those two orderlies? somethings been unleashed here, scully. i dont know how to explain it, but it has something to do with those pills.  scully! turn off the water main! turn off the water main! 
 youve got to get up. come on. you got to get up. 
 i cant open the drains. 
 just hold on. its all right. 


 yeah. fine.separator i brush after every meal. would you say they match? 
 special agent sam chaney.  chaney's a legend.  forty years before the bureau started profiling violent criminals, chaney and his partner tim ledbetter would work on their own time investigating what were then called "stranger killings" -- what are now called serial murders. they disappeared while investigating three murders in aubrey, missouri in 1942. chaney's body wasn't found until two days ago by local detective, b.j. morrow ... a woman.  during their time, chaney's and ledbetter's ideas weren't very well received by their peers. using psychology to solve a crime was something like, um ...  exactly.  there's another mystery.  well, i'd like to know why this policewoman would suddenly drive her car into a field the size of rhode island and for no rhyme or reason dig up the bones of a man who's been missing for fifty years. i mean, unless there was a neon sign saying "dig here" --   yes, and also i've always been intrigued by women named b.j. 
 (sitting on a tabletop perusing a small black leather journal) listen to this, scully. "one must wonder how these monsters are created." chaney wrote this. "did their home life mold them into creatures that must maim and kill, or are they demons from birth?"  (looking at a file) well, the press called the murderer "the slash killer." his three victims were all young women aged twenty-five to thirty. (flips through a series of gruesome black and white photographs.) he disabled them with a blow to the head. (scully picks up chaney's skull, turns it to reveal a jagged hole in the back of the skull.) he would carve the word "sister" on their chests and paint it on the wall with their blood. <scully picks up another bone, a rib, and looks at it thoughtfully.) the victims bled to death. the murderer was never found.  can you make out a word?  i checked with the precinct mechanic. bj's car was just tuned. she lied about experiencing engine failure. (sits down next to scully and helps himself to a cookie.)  (with mouthful of cookie) what are you talking about?  what do you mean?  how do you know?  (scoffs) aw ... pshaw. (computer beeps. both turn to the screen, which displays two ribcages side-by-side.) could he have carved out another word on his ribcage? (scully types some more. the images of the ribcages zoom closer and the screen reads "attempt fuzzy match".) uh, we may have. it seems agent chaney might have been a victim of the killer he was trying to catch. we're trying to determine if the cuts on his ribcage spell out a word right now. (bj walks into the room, staring at the bones as if in a trance. she has a b&w vision of chaney being dealt a blow to the head and then of a razor upraised and descending on chaney's neck. she staggers.) you all right?  um, i've approximated the pattern of the cuts to match up with letters. there's a 93% chance that this is the letter r . if we lower the probability to 79%, we get the letters i, e, and r. 
 if we exhumed one of the slash killer's victims, we could do a ct scan to determine if the cuts were made by the same type of instrument.  excuse me?  you're right.  i think you're mistaken. those were shot in 1942.  i think we all feel that way at one time or another.  well, i've often felt that dreams are answers to questions we haven't yet figured out how to ask.  you said you were in a familiar house?  what does he look like?  do you remember anything else?  you think you could draw it?  could be the trylon and the perisphere. have you ever been to new york city?  you can get pictures of these on postcards all over times square. these were the symbols of the 1939 world's fair.  and the police never made the connection to the 1942 homicides?  well, i don't want to jump to any rash conclusions, but i'd say he's definitely our prime suspect.  george foreman won the heavyweight crown at 45. some people are late bloomers. 
 anyway, this still doesn't explain bj's connection to all this.  you mean consciously forgotten information?  yeah, but that still doesn't explain why she would go into a field and unearth the grave of an fbi agent.  you mean a hunch?  well, that's a pretty extreme hunch.   i never have. 
 harry cokely?  i'm special agent mulder, this is special agent scully. we're with the federal bureau of investigation. may we come in? 
 do you recognize this man? his name's chaney.  do you have a witness to testify to that?  can you tell us what happened, bj?  you're sure it was him.  like his mug shot?  but that's the picture of a young man.  it's open. 
 cokely's blood?  but for some reason he let bj live.  i think it's time we paid a visit to mrs. thibedeaux. 
  is this your husband?  no children?  mrs. thibedeaux, our records show that you recuperated from your injuries within two months. but nine months later you checked back into the hospital.   what happened to the child?  cokely's child.   something just doesn't track, scully. the night she was attacked, bj said she saw a younger man.  no, maybe she did see a younger man -- young cokely. cokely's grandson.  it would make sense, scully. genetic traits often skip a generation. and that would explain the test results of the blood found under verna johnson's fingernails. pgm subtypes are similar among relatives. did danny call back with the adoption records yet? did you get 'em?  when i was a, a kid, i would have nightmares. i would wake up in the middle of the night, thinking i was the only person left in the world. then i would hear this.   my dad would be in the study eating these.  well, on a basic cellular level, we're the sum total of all our ancestors' biological matter. but what if more than biological traits get passed down from generation to generation? what if i like sunflower seeds because i'm genetically predisposed to liking them?  there are countless stories of twins separated at birth who end up in the same occupation, marrying the same kind of people, each naming their child waldo.  jung wrote about it when he talked about the collective unconscious. it's genetic memory, scully.  that's bj's father.  she's responsible for the murders.  get your coat. let's go. 
 no, but cokely is, and that's who bj has become.  scully, this is what i think. i think that cokely's memories, his compulsions have been passed on genetically to his granddaughter bj. that's what's driving her to kill.  yes.  i can't explain everything. maybe she carved them on herself, or maybe it's some kind of weird stigmata. whatever it is, bj is not herself.  we have to warn mrs. thibedeaux. if bj has, in the sense that i'm talking about, become cokely, then she might be trying to finish what cokely started. mrs. thibedeaux? mrs. thibedeaux! 
 where did she go?   this is agent mulder, i need an ambulance to 238 north 54th street. i also need an apb on bj morrow. yes, that's detective morrow. she should be considered armed and dangerous.   i don't think so, scully. i think if she's gonna go after anyone, it'll be cokely.  she's probably figured out by now that cokely's her grandfather. if she's looking for someone to blame, it'll be him. cokely's not answering his phone. i'm going over there. 
  cokely? 
 cokely! cokely?   no, don't. bj. 
 yes, you are. 
separator no.  why'd you call mufon?  you think this grave was unearthed by aliens, agent bocks?  the literature?  i hate to disappoint you, agent bocks, but this doesn't look like the work of aliens to me.  i've seen this kind of thing before. when i was with the violent crime section. whoever dug this up probably used a backhoe. if you took casts of the ground in the area, you'd probably lift some clean new tracks off the garage around here somewhere.  he may work here, but it's not likely. though he's probably worked at a cemetery or a mortuary at one time or another. probably been busted before, but you're not going to find any record of it. not real good for business when these stories get around.  if you want to call him that.  you okay, scully?  nothing can prepare you for it. it's almost impossible to imagine.  some people collect salt and pepper shakers. the fetishist collects dead things. hair, fingernails... no one quite knows why. though i've never quite understood salt and pepper shakers myself.  why?   i've prepared myself for it before we left washington.  i had suspected as much.  how many bodies does this make?  what else can you tell me about the analysis of the corpses?  alright, i want you to draft an eyes-only memo to everyone in this office, and to all law enforcement agencies in the metropolitan area.  that the twin cities have an escalating fetishist on their hands.  an escalating fetishist. security should be tightened around the city cemeteries. mortuaries, funeral homes and hospitals should be notified. there should be warning of a possible stalker in the area.  you can leave out the more gruesome aspects in your press release.  his compulsion is growing. he may resort to homicide to procure his corpses. once he gets a taste of a warm body, he's probably going to want more.  how's that?  if you catch this guy before he kills, maybe they can go right on believing that.  i'm going to cancel our flight. we've got some work to do here. scully   scully?  was it him?  might be a nice week to take that paid vacation the boss owes you. prostitute: yeah. right.  bocks : if this guy looks regular-like, and if he doesn't have a record, he's gonna be near impossible to find. until he kills again. or until we can determine what's driving him.  the hooker was just convenient. this guy's not after sex. he's after trophies. his victim was a young attractive woman. the corpses he dug up were those of young women. yet there's no evidence of any sexual activity. what fuels his need? what us important about the hair and fingernails to him? it's as if it's not enough that they're dead. he has to defile them. there's a deeper psychosis at work here. and anger toward women, possibly his mother.  the next thing to do is call all the psychiatric facilities. see if they have any record of patients with similar pathologies. this kind of killer isn't made over night. he's been fuelling this fetish for years. who cut him?  he's not our guy.  yeah. scully   what are you suggesting?  if you're having trouble with this case, scully, i want you to tell me.  i'd understand, scully. this isn't exactly easy to stomach.  are you staying on there, scully?  look, scully. i know this is a pretty horrific case -  no. scully  okay, i'll see you when i get there. 
 she was forced off the road, it looks like a white car... get one of your men to get a sample of this paint and get it on a plane to washington... if you hurry we can get a make and model of the car by morning... we're gonna find her. 
 we've got to go back to the beginning. as nasty as it seems, we've got to get into this guy's head. how he thinks. where would he go?  what do you mean?  let's find out. just stay there, scully.  his mother used to own the house, willed it to the sisters. i played a hunch. a patrolman spotted the car out front. her wrists untied, scully rubs them. she doesn't want to meet mulder's eyes. she's looking over at donnie, who's being bound on the floor. why don't you sit down until someone can take a look at you. separator "they"?  "the night chicago died"?   was jerry stevens or his friends ever witnessed participating in witchcraft?  i think with a few turquoise chips, a picture of john wayne and three cans of shellac it'd make a pretty nice coffee table.  better hide your megadeth albums.  the homicide did have a ceremonial presentation -- the manner in which the body was displayed...  i didn't want to incite his already clearly aggravated imagination. but there is a weird feel to this place, maybe there is some truth to those rumours.  so... lunch?  i guess their parachutes didn't open. you were saying something about this place not feeling "odd"? he walks away. scully stands still for a moment, then follows him, stepping gingerly over the frogs.  if you didn't kill jerry stevens, why did you run away from us in the classroom?  of us?   there's no evidence to warrant an arrest. he walks toward them, scully close behind.  "they" again.   our investigation is ongoing. mulder reaches to scully, to draw her away. she goes, but looks back in sheer disbelief at ausbury. ausbury looks back at the others.  the water...  it's going down the drain counter-clockwise! coriolis force in the northern hemisphere dictates that it should go down clockwise.  something's here, scully. something is making these things possible. scully looks again at the water, puzzled. shannon! you're remembering!  tell me what you're remembering. imagine... if what she said is true...  mr ausbury? he motions toward the kitchen. ausbury looks at his wife in concern, he clearly doesn't want to leave her, but gets up and walks out of shot. mulder follows. mrs ausbury is left hugging herself nervously, still upset but calmer. scully shifts in her seat. did you do it? ausbury turns to look at him, the beginnings of shock and anger on his face. the glass in his hand shatters, the noise startling them both. he drops the remainder of the glass into the sink. that's not a very christian tenet. we see him over by a wooden door. he opens it. ausbury doesn't notice. even the devil can quote scripture to fit his needs. ausbury turns and sees what mulder is doing. the door slams shut by itself, startling mulder. ausbury doesn't seem to notice. he is furious, shouting. her office has a faint odour of incense. .  it's also used in black mass rituals.  what do you mean, oddities?  flesh-eating bacteria?  that's very rare.  no, i've got a feeling this is something we both should get caught up in. i'm going to get a search warrant for the ausbury house -- i've been told they're staying with friends.  you check deeper into mrs paddock. more lightning. this time the lights go out. did you abuse shannon?  the rituals.  like... drinking grape juice instead of wine at communion?  what about shannon's memories?   did the others kill jerry stevens?  shannon?  but you are responsible. you knew the possibilities contained in your beliefs, no matter how watered down.  did you really think you could call up the devil and ask him to behave? who are the others?  yeah?   scully?  i've got an emergency.  i'm placing you under arrest.  i'll be back for you later. he dashes up the stairs, closes the door and bolts it. ausbury watches him go.mulder runs out of the front door, gets into the car and backs it out of the driveway in a tearing hurry. scully!   you called me! you said you were in trouble.  ausbury confessed to conspiracy. he was going to give up the names of everybody involved, parents, teachers...  there's no evidence of any reaction of the wood from the acid.  there are tracks in the dirt... they're from a snake.  you really do watch the learning channel.  scully.  snakeskin.  we know about that.  paramedics must be tied up by the storm. you just stay there, mrs paddock. i'm going to lock the door. he takes his flashlight and hurries off. paddock.separator private john mcalpin-- one of the few, the proud ... the dead. last week he wrapped his car around a tree. died on impact.  the military is calling it a suicidetheyre especially concerned because its the second one in as many weeks.  yeah, except that it's not exactly a base. flip to the back. the marines were all stationed at the folkstone processing center in north carolina. more than 12,000 refugees waiting for asylum from uncle sam.  a ten year old boy was killed but the uh, details of his death were never released.  they didn't. mrs. mcalpin contacted the bureau when the military refused her request to investigate her husband's death further.   there. 
 this is the tree that stopped private mcalpin's car. state police reported there's graffiti on the bark.  most of the refugees at folkstone are haitian.  mrs. mcalpin doesn't believe her husband killed himself. she wants to know who did. did he believe in voodoo?  so, when did you first think that his death involved something out of the ordinary?  who told you that?  what about you?  how much?  ill give you five.  you should always carry protection. hold on.  there you go. 
 colonel wharton, a, uh... a certain ritual sign was found at the scene of both deaths. is there anything you can tell us about that?  but you haven't investigated it as a possibility.  we understand a refugee was killed-- a young boy.  who would that be?  do you think we could speak with him?  youre harry dunham.  you knew private mcalpin? his wife said you were friends.  any idea why he might have killed himself?  you can't say or you won't say?  my name is mulder. i'm with the fbi. i was hoping you could answer some questions about the two us marines who took their own lives.  i'm not convinced it's as simple as that.  you tell me. these photographs were taken at the sites of both deaths.  the shell was found buried under one of the soldiers' homes. can you tell me about the symbol?  just the truth. one of the marines left behind a wife. she's too frightened to even mourn. she deserves some peace of mind.  colonel wharton says you incited the riot last month.  does that mean you would kill to preserve it?  come on, scully. let's go. 
 so what do you think happened to private mcalpin?  it's quite a trick considering he's been confined for the last month.  but you said there was no trace evidence. and security is practically impossible to breach.  well, just in case, i believe in covering my bases. 
 scully, look out! 
 hey...  its a plausible diagnosis. only i'm more interested in how he came back to life.  did you get a copy of the blood test?  somehow, i get the feeling private mcalpin didn't frequent too many sushi bars.  what do you know about zombies?  in 1982, a harvard ethnobotanist named wade davis did extensive field research in haiti on the zombification phenomenon. he analyzed several samples of zombie powder prepared by voodoo priests and he found tetrodotoxin to be common to all of them.  but in small enough doses it can cause paralysis and depress cardiorespiratory activities to such a low level that the victim might appear clinically dead.  exactly. which is what makes me wonder about the other marine who allegedly killed himself.  yeah. we've arranged to exhume the body of manuel guttierez.  these body snatchers what do they do with the bodies?  to who?  let us take care of this.  maybe you can tell us. 
 what about a name?  what do you do with the frogs, chester?  from who? who pays you for them?  hey, chester. i got magic, too, and i bet i can make your fries reappear.   i didn't want to say anything before because i wasn't sure, but i think we're being followed. it's a gray four-door sedan in the parking lot. keep an eye on chester. 
 out of the car, private. you've been following us.  you didnt seem too interested in helping us before.  chester? he's just a little boy.  private dunham was just about to tell us why we're in danger.  but you do?  unless what?  you said that bauvais threatened the colonels men.  you believe he can do that?  till i can figure out why hed lie, yeah.  why would he be trying to avoid chester? 
 chester? chester? 
 chester! chester! stop! im not going to hurt you!  its okay. ill get him. chester! chester! 
  thats all right. we already ate. 
 thats right.  his body was missing-- stolen from his coffin apparently.  well, well let you finish. wouldnt want your breakfast to get cold. 

 whartons left these people no choice but to fight back with the only weapon they have.  not according to private dunham. 
 what? 
  let me see that.  i was surprised to get your card. i had assumed our last contact... would be our last. why are you here?  i've got a renegade marine who may be violating every human rights provision...  what about scully and me?   they're making the camp invisible. why?  why hold them up? why not just repatriate them?  youre saying the military's sanctioning wharton's revenge? these people are innocent civilians. some people in congress might have a real problem with that.  scully?   i found him wandering around outside. you all right?  when i found him. he had this in his hand. 
 do you recall leaving the hospital?  do you remember killing private dunham?  colonel... can we have a word outside? 
 what exactly did you tell him?  i need to know that he signed that confession voluntarily?  since his reappearance has private mcalpin had any contact with bauvais?  well, we'd still like to speak with bauvais.  why?  what's wrong?   mulder. .. okay, mrs. mcalpin. we can be there in fifteen minutes. mrs. mcalpin, you said on the telephone that private dunham came here last night. what did he want?  for what reason?  when in rome scully . look at this. check out the name on the dogtags. 
 wheres wharton?  he killed bauvais. if you know anything about it youll be tried as an accessory to murder  if you dont believe us, look in the trunk. 
  this is whats left of private guttierez. now wheres bauvais body?  too bad it has to be in a box. separator i have lived with a fragile faith built on the ether of vague memories from an experience that i can neither prove nor explain.when i was twelve, my sister was taken from me, taken from our home by a force that i came to believe was extraterrestrial. this belief sustained me, fueling a quest for truths that were as elusive as the memory itself. to believe as passionately as i did was not without sacrifice, but i always accepted the risks... to my career, my reputation, my relationships... to life itself...
 what happened to me out on the ice has justified every belief. if i should die now, it would be with the certainty that my faith has been righteous. and if, through death, larger mysteries are revealed, i will have already learned the answer to the question that has driven me here... that there is intelligent life in the universe other than our own... that they are here among us... and that they have begun to colonize. 
 i have been looking for you.  you got to wonder about a country where even the president has to worry about drive-by shootings. 
 i found these in my e-mail this morning... three obituaries.  nobody i know but obviously somebody who knows me. 
 the deceased are doctor landon prince of scranton, pennsylvania... doctor dale gayhart of new york city......and doctor harvey buchanon of tea neck, new jersey. all worked in abortion clinics. they died in separate arson fires. sounds like it.  it's taken me all morning to figure that out.  this is the latest victim, doctor landon prince. and these are the other two victims... doctors gayhart... ...and buchanon.
 nope. i can't find any blood connection between them. in fact, i can't find any records on them at all. it's as if before they died, they never existed.  you don't know anything else about him?  as soon as you locate doctor prince's remains.  well, there have been two identical fire deaths. neither body has been found.  is that what you think, reverend?  well, it's my opinion that whoever killed doctor prince will also be linked to two other murders. how do you feel about that?  have you been to new york or new jersey in the past two weeks?  this clipping, where'd you get it?  which newspaper?  do you have a record of his name or address?  thank you.  what do you mean?  sounds just like an x-file.  if somebody really wanted to set us up, would they give us this little to go on? there's something bigger here, scully. i'd be willing to bet there are more of these guys out there.  unless we get to them first. the deaths follow a pattern... new jersey, new york, scranton... ...and then an ad is placed here in binghamton looking for a man exactly like the others. the killer's moving in a northernly direction.uh, eh, uh... excuse me? excuse me.the, uh, number in the ad, is th... would that be a voice mail? how, how would you access that?  that's north. yeah, this is agent mulder. i need to enlist your help.  i'm heading your way with agent scully. we have reason to believe a man in your area may be in danger. his name is doctor aaron baker, he's living somewhere in syracuse. we need you to find him and sit on him... ...until we get there. yes, agent weiss? 
 did you find doctor baker?  uh, we may already be too late but we should take a look around anyway.  sorry i'm late, i just flew in.  syracuse. 
 agent scully and i were following up a lead on a case.  no, sir.  no, sir. i'd assumed we had an understanding with respect to the x-files.  what? 
 it's impossible... i spoke to agent weiss, i saw him at the house. 
 sir...  what case is that?  how did they get here?  for what purpose?  what's your business in this?  what makes you think we've been contacted?  we know where one of these man may be. 
 doctor dickens?  i believe you've been trying to contact us.  it's okay, sir, there's nothing to be afraid of! 
 he's moving... he's getting up! 
 okay. i just got the wind knocked out of me. don't lose him! go!  like i should've used the crosswalk. a lot better than my phone. 
 scully, if what our friend from the c.i.a. says is true, this could blow the lid off one of the biggest national security conspiracies ever.  oh, i changed it to "trust everyone." i didn't tell you? i ran a full background check on this guy. ambrose chapel is a seventeen-year veteran, special intelligence clearance. he's the real thing, scully.
 i think you're being overly paranoid about him, scully.  is that what you want me to put on my report to skinner? because i would be more than happy to have you explain that to him.  three identical men are dead. a fourth identical man is alive and on the lam. if the pursuit of this case seems like insanity to you, feel free to step away from it.  those are the risks we take. you either accept them or you don't. we all draw our own lines. 
 why don't you send it to our lab guys for analysis? and while you're at it, why don't you arrange for an autopsy bay? in putting together my report for skinner, i came across something i think you'll appreciate. whoever killed that field agent in syracuse was so clever, no clear cause of death can be established. 
 strange how?  how excessive?  due to what?  didn't agent chapel say something about these doctors being able to contaminate the blood supply? couldn't one of those contaminants have been used to kill this man?  yeah?  all right, i'll be right there. check the bag. see if you can find anything that'll connect. just the truth. i got hit by a car. 
 i'm sorry this is so late. i had trouble with the, uh, data from the, uh, autopsy... 
 thank you. 
 you said it was an emergency. 
 what is it, dad? 
 who is mom talking to? 
 try and get some sleep. 
 yeah, mom?  i... i don't see who else it could be. now go to sleep.
 it's twenty-two years too late. 
 so much has happened. where do you begin? 
 who were they?  but you came to remember... us.  what do you mean?  your f... your father.  hey, scully, it's mulder, pick up the phone. okay, if you're screening, pick up the phone, i need to talk to you. all right, do not under any circumstances trust the c.i.a. agent. your life may be in danger, now call me.
 disguise himself how?  as anyone? you got to be kidding.  yeah, i need to speak to dana scully, please. 
 all right, i need her to call fox mulder as soon as she checks in, okay? fox mulder.  yes. 
separator  scully? are you there? scully? what's going on? 
 who was that?  i, i was trying to reach you. i went by your house but you weren't there. i got here as quickly as i could.  i, i, i did call. i, i couldn't get through. 
 scully, what are you doing?  what's wrong?  scully, it's me... 
 okay, i'm going to take my left hand and reach into my pocket and get my i.d., okay? just don't shoot me. i got shot once and i didn't much care for it.  where is he? that was him on the phone, wasn't it? tell me where he is. scully? 
 how do you know?  there's no sign of a break-in. she wouldn't have just let him in.  why, why does he want to kill you?  how?  that would kill anybody.  fairly sure?  from what?  no, no, no, no, no... that's just it. it doesn't seem incredible at all. now, how do we find him?  we just need to get him out of the car. make him think we're going to make a trade. we just need one shot.  these guys can hollow out a dime at two-hundred yards. and, samantha. do not take any unnecessary risks out there.scully?
 scully, you all right?  yeah?  there's no way out. we've got both sides of the bridge covered. now let her go. 
 let her go! samantha! samantha!
 you should be in the hospital, scully.  nothing yet. you think she could've survived?  well, maybe she went into hypothermic shock. i've heard about people who have lived after being stranded in water like this... eight to ten hours.  i couldn't tell you.  cause you'd never let me go through with it.  why would you even question me on that?  well, it was her. 
 he's an alien. 
 i already told skinner, that was the easy part. now i got to tell my father. 
 mulder. 
 scully, she left a path in case we got separated. i think she's alive. 
 why? what'd you find?  are you sure? 
 what about a second body? did you find a second body? 
 i'll be there as soon as i can. 
 federal agent. put your hands where i can see them and turn around. slowly. who are you?  what the hell is going on?  who are you?  it was all a lie.  who?   he's dead.  he was shot. in the back of the neck!  he fell off a bridge... with one of you.  i'm not your savior.  no, i... i do have a choice and my choice is to walk out of here.   what about the others?  no. wait. there were women in here.  no. you've got to keep looking... how was the opera?  i'm sorry. i need your help.  i need to know what you know.  no. one of them is alive, the one who was sent to kill them. where is he?  i got to get up there.  hey! stop!who are you? step out of there! come out!what happened to you? don't look at me, face forward! 
 so why did you run?  how is it you managed to survive?  no. i'm just tired and you're not getting back to your ship until i get the truth. now tell me where my sister is.  base of the neck! now, you tell me how i can find her and i'll let you get back to your ship before it's destroyed!  where is she? 
 where is she? just tell me where she is. like i got a bad case of freezer burn. how did i get here?  i... i'm sorry, i... i couldn't let you risk your life on this.  no. no. but i... i found something i thought i'd lost. faith to keep looking. 
separator what did the janitors say?  that's not surprising. the security monitors don't have a recording of anything either. just a giant implosion of glass like some kind of giant shock wave.  no sonic boom did this.  the construction worker who was killed had his spine crushed like a string of seashells, a circular abrasion on his torso in roughly the shape of an elephant's foot. other workers at the site said they felt the ground shake followed by a faint whiff of animal odor in the wind.  well, if somebody would have seen it, scully, we wouldn't be here. another vehicle would have left evidence of a collision - distress to the metal, or paint. i can see signs of neither of those things. i'd be willing to admit the possibility of a tornado but it's not really tornado season. i'd even be willing to entertain the notion of a black hole passing over the area ...  ... or some cosmic anomaly, but it's not really black hole season, either.  if i was a betting man i'd say that it was, uh, ...  i saw david copperfield make the statue of liberty disappear once.  yeah.  this is agent scully.  how did she escape?  any idea how she could have escaped a locked cage?  i've read about something called the elephant rebellion in zoos across the country - a high incidence of elephants turning on their keepers, destroying their pens. was ganesha ever a problem like that?  so you're saying there were problems?  well, let me ask you something. in your opinion, the damage here on the street - could this have been caused by an escaped elephant?  yeah.  a local paper. i want to see if david copperfield's in town. actually, what we're trying to determine is how ganesha escaped.  he said he found the cage locked, the same way he left it.  i don't want to belabor this, but a man was found trampled to death. an animal from your zoo was found 43 miles from here. no one's looking to place any blame, we're just trying to understand the facts that led up to this incident. 
 who has keys to this lock?  those, uh, chains on the ground there?  disallowed their use by whom?  how's your relationship with ed meecham?  have you spoken about the incident with ed?  it's the wild again organization - they're a radical group that believes any captive animal is a crime against nature.  what do you think ganesha was running from?  this is still going on?  even though willa ambrose claims that she's put a stop to most of his old practices?  i'm sure he would have if he'd seen it coming. thanks for your time, sir, and we'll get back to you soon. 

 it's all happening at the zoo, scully.  you think they busted out the elephant?  what about all the eyewitness accounts, the security tapes from the video camera, the fact no one saw an elephant until it was miles away from the zoo?  ah, i'm not buying it, scully. i think these guys are all talk.  no.  by doing what?  all right. you keep an eye on the w.a.o.  talk to the animals. did anybody ever tell you the camera loves you, frohike?  uh, about 150 bucks an hour.  where's langley?  i'm in the town of fairfield. what do you know about it?  any idea why?    mulder. 
 all right, i'll be right there, scully. 
 scully? 
 you okay, scully?  you calmed down? 
 no, but i looked at the cassette from the kid's recorder. he wasn't killed by the tiger.  unless it's trick photography, that kid was killed by some kind of phantom attacker.  i can't explain it either, but i know someone who might be able to. 
 excuse me? miss ambrose? may we have a word with you? 
 is this where you keep sophie?  you think we could meet her? we're not here to try to take her away from you. 

 did you ask her why?  what'd she say?  it's basic investigative procedure, agent scully - interview all possible witnesses. 
 are these sophie's?  what do you think they mean?  have you tried to mate her?  do you have a veterinary facility here?  all right, this may seem like a rather strange request but it might help explain what's been going on here. i'm gonna need your help on this, too, scully. 
 i'm pretty sure of what we're gonna find.  and the next thing you know, they'll be doing it on mtv sports.  i've been told there's never been a successful pregnancy at the fairfield zoo.  well, is it true?  why then?  but a perfect failure rate?  was an attempt ever made to mate ganesha?  neither is an invisible elephant.  whatever it is it's been going on for some time, and i think you'll find evidence of the same thing when your tiger returns. i don't know, but we better find it before meecham does. 

 i'm sorry.  you mean for sophie?  agent scully just finished the test. the tiger had been pregnant too.  what if they've been artificially inseminated?  unless it was done somewhere else.  what do you know about alien abduction?  i don't know where they're being taken but there's obviously some problem getting them back. due to what is probably an astrological variation, a trouble with the time-space continuum - these animals that are being taken from locked cages are being returned roughly two miles westsouthwest of the zoo.  yes, and harvesting the embryos.  maybe their own noah's ark? to preserve the dna of these animals that we're depleting to extinction. whatever it is, that's probably the reason why you've never had a successful birth at this facility.  i understand that you might think it's ridiculous. maybe you should ask sophie.  i believe she's pregnant, and she's afraid of them coming for her baby. 
 what'd she say?  can i ask her a question?  will you ask her if she wants to leave here?  what did she say?  whatever you do, you can't leave sophie here. not if you want to protect her.  where did you get this? 
 it's a small world, after all. 
 scully, can i talk to you for a second? 
 why do you say that?  yes.  i still am, but in this case, willa's reactions are all wrong.  i think she knows where sophie is, and kyle lang died because he knows what she's capable of.  i think she'd do anything to protect that animal.  i think an examination of the body will give us a lot clearer picture of what happened last night. you do that, and i'll check out the warehouse. 


 put it down, ed. there's been enough violence, don't you think?  put down the gun and we'll talk about it.   where is the animal, ed?  okay. you show me where - we're gonna go there together. come on. 
 what's she doing?  she's scared.  okay, ed. well, you're going to have to save her. take your tranquilizer gun. i'll be right behind you. 
 you see her?  hey, meecham! 
 i'm not gonna hurt you. 

 where's sophie?  meecham.  they took sophie.  where's willa?  i got to talk to her. 
 she's gone.  it wasn't ed. she tried to tell me something. 
 what is that?  what does it mean? "man save man."
 that's her.   willa ambrose and ed meecham have been charged with manslaughter for the death of kyle lang. and though the courts will rule on this matter, and justice will be no doubt be served, the pall of a greater tragedy remains. the motives of the silent visitors who set these events in motion remain unclear. could this be a judgement on a global rate of extinction that has risen to 1000 times its natural rate in this century? an act of alien conservation of animals we are driving hard toward oblivion? and if so, might it follow that our own fate and existence could finally be dependent upon the conservatorship of an extraterrestrial race? or in the simple words of a creature whose own future is uncertain, will "man save man?" 
separator scully. thanks for coming.  i didn't want to waste any time. a navy destroyer escort, the uss ardent, has been missing in the north atlantic for the past 42 hours.  yeah, there's been no radio contact, no distress signals picked up. search planes and satellites haven't picked up anything either.  well, that's what it looked like until last night. a canadian trawler picked up 18 survivors.  only one of those survivors is still alive. he's been taken into the icu under heavy security.  that's what i was hoping you could tell me.  they won't let me in to see him, but because of your medical background, i was able to get you a clearance code. i want your opinion on this. his name is harper, lt. richard harper.  meet me back in my office when you're finished. thank you.  
 did they let you in to see lt. harper?  what do you mean?  i want to show you something, scully.  this was the course of the uss ardent when she disappeared. now, i've been tracking the points of departure and destination for each of these x-files. on december 12, 1949, a royal navy battleship disappeared between leeds and cape perry. the sea was calm, the weather sunny. in 1963, at the height of the cuban missile crisis, a fleet of soviet minesweepers left from here for havana. all 6 vessels vanished without a trace. all in all, i've counted 9 unexplained disappearances. each of them passed through here - the 65th parallel. 
 it's more like a wrinkle in time, if lt. harper is any indication.  you know anything about the philadelphia experiment?  except none of those scientists ever made it to los alamos.  roswell, new mexico.  less than nine months after the alleged crash of a ufo in roswell, new mexico, the uss eldridge did more than just hide from radar screens, it disappeared altogether from the philadelphia navy yard only to reappear minutes later, hundreds of miles away, in norfolk virginia.  those physicists may have been trying to manipulate wormholes on earth.  actual portals where matter interfaces with time at a relatively decelerated or accelerated rate. i'm betting that the military never stopped the work it began 50 years ago.  i'm giving myself a 24-hour head start before i give skinner my report. i want this one myself.  0 for 5.  how do you feel about the sea north of beerenburg?  so you've been there?  a number of things. how good are you?  when can we leave?  uhhh ... you're lucky you inherited your father's legs.  his sea legs.  (to trondheim) it's been about 12 hours. you said it was only gonna take 10. what's going on?  how much longer 'til we get there?  the uss ardent. it's a destroyer escort.  scully. (she comes over and looks) let's check the crew quarters first. (they go below into the crews quarters. they find a number of bodies, all of which look extemely old and are heavily crusted with a white residue.) like they've been dead a very long time.  an engine.  hey!  hey!  all right.  try it again.  it's caked with the same residue that's covering everything.  what we're seeing here may be the result of some kind of military experiment.  an artifical time band, where matter moves through time at an accelerated rate.  time may be speeding up.  the ship ... the ship was launched in 1991. i don't know how else to explain the extent of the corrosion or the decay of the bodies down below.  what happened?  who are you?  here you go. 
 there's no way he killed halverson.  that means there's somebody else on board. 
 put it down! put down the pipe! put it down! 
 back off, trondheim!  he may be our only chance to figure out what happened. look at him. look at him! he hasn't aged. back off! 
 you know him?  ask him how he got here. 
 we'll question him later. i don't want to leave scully alone, in case there are others. 
 i think we found who killed halverson.  maybe we should ask the captain some more questions.  is that what this substance is?  all right, we're all tired. let's stow the captain's body and tie up olafsson so we can all get some rest. i'll take first watch, in case he's not alone. 
 scully?  you want a few more minutes?  scully ... 
 then theoretically it's possible. what else could it be?  we're the evidence, scully! look at us! we're aging by the minute.  relax, relax, trondheim. save your energy.  nobody twisted your arm.  is this a quiz?  grow old, you mean?  so you think something is triggering that reaction in us?  it makes sense, scully. the organic equivalent to rust would be rapid premature senescence.  it's not blood, scully. it's rust. trondheim, you keep an eye on olafsson.  i'm not sure yet, but we don't have much time to get there. 
 see this yellow pipe? it's the only one that hasn't corroded through. 
 olafsson and his men.  this is the only drinkable water on the ship. we were both wrong, scully. it's the water. all the other water's been contaminated.  something must have gotten into the desalination tanks where all the ship's potable water is stored. but the water in the sewage system is recycled again and again. it doesn't come from the sea.   the water from this tank may do the same for us.  what happened? you were supposed to watch him.   i want to know what happened?  there's nothing wrong with my knot! this rope's been severed!  let go of me.  it's the water, trondheim. something got into the de-sal tanks, but the water in the sewage system is untainted.  i think i just lapped george burns.  you're almost out of pages. it's good you kept a record.  you go ahead and drink it.  it's the only logical choice, scully. you're a woman. your life expectancy is greater, and your body retains more water in fatty tissues.  you have a much greater chance of surviving until help comes.  don't be so stubborn, scully. you know i'm right.  there might be. 
 the outer hull must have finally corroded through, which means we're taking on water.  i always thought when i got older i'd maybe take a cruise somewhere. this isn't exactly what i had in mind. the service on this ship is terrible, scully.  it's not fair. it's not our time. we still have work to do. 
 i'm so tired. separatorseparator this photo was taken at an amusement park three months ago. the young boy in the background is teddy holvey, aged two.  he was killed just seconds after this was taken.  according to the police report, he wandered onto the tracks of the park's miniature train. the conductor was unable to stop due to a malfunction in the braking system. teddy's father works for the state department, so a coroner's inquest was held due to the unusual circumstances surrounding the accident.  no. no, but the county medical examiner called me afterwards. he was disturbed by this case and by this photograph, and i think with good reason. you see, this is a helium balloon here, and the one thing i did learn in kindergarten is when you let them go, they float up, up and away, but you see this is moving away from him, horizontally.  well, i called the national weather service and they said on the day that teddy died the wind was blowing north. but you see, the balloon is moving south, as if it's being pulled against the wind.  i don't know. that's why i came to chuck, the king of digital imaging. chuck can extract incredibly small details from a simple photographic print. 
 it all checked out, scully.  i think from the information here, this is clearly some kind of poltergeist activity.   in order to get on those tracks, teddy holvey had to escape this child-proof halter that his mother had tied to a bathroom sink.  so the c.m.e. took it home and put it on his own two-year-old and found it was physically impossible for the kid to reach around and free himself, so unless teddy holvey was the reincarnation of houdini - and that would be an x-file in itself ... 
 we're here apart from that investigation. we have reason to believe something may have been overlooked.  the possibility teddy may have been helped onto the tracks.  do you have any reason to suspect someone may have wanted to hurt teddy?  mrs. holvey, did you hear anything in the bathroom right before teddy disappeared?  around the time of teddy's death, had you noticed anything strange happening around the house, uh, things moved, odd objects appearing, anything like that? 
 ah ... does this happen often?  you recognize this?  it's also known as a gammadion or a fylfot. it's an ancient symbol used for protection or good luck. it's been used by various cultures since the middle ages. the holvey's child had one on the back of his hand last night. my guess it was drawn there by the old lady, to protect the boy.  and you didn't think that was strange?  yeah, my grandfather used to take that for his stomach.   projectile vomiting at three months. diarrhea at four months. vomiting ... diarrhea ... diarrhea.  and no one questioned this?  charlie had medical problems, too?  do you feel like taking a walk over to the state department, scully? 
 what kind of strangeness?  afraid of him or for him?  yeah, maybe. 
 yeah. it's everywhere. look at this. 
 no, i checked the motor. it's working fine.  i don't know, but i'm gonna have this analyzed.  uh, the courts are reluctant to intervene in these matters.  really? you still think this is munchausen by proxy, scully?  i didn't do anything. 
 hey. you want to see something weird?  chem-lab analysis of the ash from the holvey's house.  no trace of any metal, no carbon, no oxygen, no nothing.  it contains nothing organic or inorganic. in fact, according to the technicians, this ash doesn't exist.  come on.  to get a second opinion. before chuck succumbed to the glamours of academia, he did a tour of duty on the old hippie trail.  that energy could have been what set off the garage door opener.  well, who are you suggesting did that?  the old lady ... and charlie. 

 what happened?  did you talk to charlie?  well, there was more ash on the floor under the old woman's body, and look at this.   it's mugwort. i think it's a ceremonial herb.  no. the reverse swastika on the window and the red string around charlie's wrist - those are protective devices.  i don't know, but i think the old woman knew the family was in trouble, and those men were here doing a ritual to help her. 
 who are they?  excuse me. 
 sir? can i have a word with you? sir, i'm with the fbi. i'd like to ask you some questions. 
 you were trying to protect the family, weren't you? you said there was still evil here. sir?  i can arrest you if i have to.  mrs. holvey? i know this is a difficult time, but there are some questions that need to be answered.  do you know what kind of ceremony she was performing upstairs?  what secret, mrs. holvey? what are you talking about?  how's charlie?  i'm amazed she hasn't broken down completely. she's in the waiting room, trying to get some sleep.  what are you looking at?  where?  are you all right?  you gotta get to mrs. holvey's house.  that boy you saw leaving with mrs. holvey - that wasn't charlie.  a spirit, a ghost - i'm not sure but it's what we saw in the photograph. it's what the old woman was trying to protect the family from.  whatever it is, it's killed three people, and you've got to get to mrs. holvey's before it happens again. 
 get help. scully, you all right?   the strange case of charlie holvey and the deaths that occurred during his possession by a dark and malevolent force are unsolved ... 
  ... the boy, who will celebrate his tenth birthday next month, remains under the watchful care of his mother. and though i believe him innocent of the crimes, i am disturbed by the warnings of the calusari that neither innocence nor vigilance may be protection against the howling heart of evil.separator i don't think the guards are watching enough prison movies.  i thought this was about escaped prisoners.  then who are the men in the funny suits? (scully looks through as well.) excuse me? (a guard hands tapia a clipboard.) no.  oh, we'd be happy to as soon as we can talk to someone in charge. (tapia marches back up to them.) apparently not or you'd know why our involvement was requested.  where did this case originate, scully?  did he say why he gave it to us?  well, this isn't the type of thing the f.b.i. normally gets called in on. i got a feeling we're not being told the entire story here.  do you think you could get in there and find out what's going on?  to see if i can get in the way. (he walks out past an armed guard.) mulder. 
 what did you find?  deadly? how deadly? 
 well, is there a chance any of the escaped men were infected? 
 i'd say these guys are a danger in any event. call me as soon as you know anything.
 yeah. 
 uh, it's one of, if not the biggest manufacturer of drugs in america. why? 
 any idea what was in the package?  scully, from the description we got, one of the prisoners had a large, purple-ish inflammation on his face. 
 yeah, it could spread. i, i, i need to know more about it. how it's transmitted. we've got one dead prisoner in the bedroom. the other one's gone. 
 thank you for seeing me at this late hour, sir.  this case we've been assigned, i believe we've been misled, possibly decieved.  whoever originated the case.  that agent scully and i were sent on this manhunt without knowledge of the existence or nature of a contagion.  it's deadly. it kills within thirty-six hours. one escaped convict was infected. he's dead now. the other man may be infected and he's on the loose.  no, we just know that over a dozen men have died from it and it appears to be highly contagious.  why weren't we told the truth?  but innocent people could be infected! what you knew could have prevented that.  you can't protect the public by lying to them.  i won't be a party to it. how about you? mulder. 
 what? 
 do you have proof of that? 
 okay, listen, scully. i need to know how this happened. i want you to start documenting everything you can get your hands on. people have to know about the cover-up. it's a public health crisis. 
 yeah, but what if he is?  what if someone dies because we witheld what we knew? 
 are you okay in there, scully? 
 elizabeth? my name is fox mulder, i'm with the f.b.i. where did paul go, elizabeth?  i think you do know. and i think you know why you're in here. how are you feeling? steve felt fine too. didn't take long for that to change.  you should be scared. if i were you, i'd be scared.  no, paul is the one who is lying and if he's infected, a lot of people are going to die.  that's not my decision.  elizabeth, paul is out there somewhere. i have to find him. now, you can help me... or not. he's on a ten o'clock bus to toronto, she was supposed to be with him. no! no, they don't know what they're dealing with. if he's infected, he could spread it. what we need know is control. 
 he's here. he bought a ticket to toronto.  and he's infected. 
 mulder. 
 you okay, scully?  yeah, he's headed to toronto.  but he's infected. he's going to die. 
 hold your men back.  i'm getting on the bus.  there are other passangers on board. the prisoner sees a uniform, he could panic. he panics and innocent people die.  i get on the bus, i take the seat directly behind the prisoner, i put my gun to his head, i make an announcement to clear the bus. 
 there's supposed to be a man on the bus.  take the key out of the ignition and turn around slowly. 
 i'm with the f.b.i. i need to know if this man has boarded the bus. 
 federal agent! drop your weapon! 
 let the boy go!  you got over two dozen u.s. marshalls out there, paul. how far you gonna get? 
 the question is, how many people are you going to take with you?  you were infected in prison. 
 and your girlfriend elizabeth and possibly your son. how many more people do you want to expose? you saw a package? 
 all right, everybody, off the bus. just keep going. just go. keep moving!all right, come on out. it's okay. come on out, just slide out. i'm here for you.that's it.all right.all right, paul, what was in that package?what was in that package? a pharmaceutical company was using you as a guinea pig! if you tell me what was in that package, i'll make sure they don't get away with it! come on, paul, you remember. tell me! robert torrence was patient zero, the first prisoner to contract the disease. just before being admitted to the infirmary, he received a package from pinck pharmaceuticals. they orchestrated this entire thing to circumvent years of f.d.a. trials in order to get their drug on the market. 
 because i wanted you to hear it from me before you read it in the papers. 
 the public has a right to know so it doesn't happen again.  eighteen people are dead, and if you're helping them cover the truth behind those deaths, then you're just as guilty as they are.  i thought i was dealing with you. 
 what are you talking about?  that's why we were given this assignment, right? they knew all along... so that even if we succeeded in finding the truth, we'd be discredited as part of it. am i right? am i right?! well, what about you, where do you stand? separator who's your contact?  hello.   we'll talk later. 
 how do you know he's missing?   hmm, scotch. it looks like he barely touched it.  windows?  you never know. you guys turn up any forensics evidence at all?  scully, look at this.  did you run a test on it?  does this look like an arm to anybody?  this burn mark, it's right where i'd be if i were standing here answering the door, right?  and i wouldn't be looking out the peephole unless there was something to look at, right?  detective ryan, can you have this bulb dusted for prints?  and can you run those against mr. newirth's. do you have mr. newirth's prints?  ok, can you check those against all hotel employees and registered guests?  yeah, do you have the name of the last missing person?  thanks, that should do it. is this your first case, detective?  any idea why they gave it to you?  well, don't be so sure about that.  at first blush? spontaneous human combustion. 
 what are you talking about?  i have over a dozen case files of human bodies reduced to ash without any attendant burning or melting. rapid oxidation without heat.   ok. 
 hey, scully, can you spare a prophylactic? 
 what are the odds of that, huh?  check this out. my newest tool in the fight against crime - $49.95 at your local hardware store. 
 what do we know about the victim?  yeah, but half of richmond earns their paycheck making cancer sticks. it's just a coincidence.  i don't know. 
 ah, look at this, scully. someone forgot to empty the trash. m. wysnecki, round trip to hampton roads, virginia, return train dated march 17.  patrick newirth came into town by train, didn't he?  maybe that was a detail that was overlooked.  maybe these people aren't just disappearing, maybe they're being hunted. and the hunter is working the train station.  maybe it's not so spontaneous. get on the phone to your young detective and tell her to get a detail down to the train station. 
 nothing else?  the prints you pulled from that light bulb ...  not yet.  he was here, scully, i was right about that.  maybe with enough to identify the killer.  he was here last night. he was also probably here on march 17 and march 31.  that leaves us with 3 days of train station videotapes to cross-reference and hopefully find out who this guy is.  either way, the security camera's our only witness. let's go back to the terminal tape.  he's got to be on at least one of these tapes.  see, this guy. right here. he's always here. what's he doing?  why's he doing that?  can you freeze this and blow it up 200 percent?  ok, can you reframe and blow it up some more? he's got something on his jacket right there.  polarity magnetics.  march 22. do you know him?  how's that?  which was what?  powered by what?  look at this!  like getting an x-ray.  what do you think, scully?  i'm less convinced of that now.  i don't know. whatever it is, it's connected to the person of dr. chester ray banton, maybe even part of him.  i know of one place to start looking. on the videotape, dr. banton kept staring at the floor. i've been trying to figure out what he might have been looking at.  you trying to tell me something?  did you tell her about dr. banton's accident?  like?  what if, dr. banton ... look here, there are hardly any shadows cast.  the lighting in here is diffused. it's soft light. what if that was what banton was looking for? 
 dr. banton! 
 stop right there! dr. banton!  we're federal agents, dr. banton.  i thought the orders were to keep this patient in the dark.  we're trying to understand.  can you tell us how?  you have no control over it?  they?  the brain suck? for the purpose of ...  but if they killed you, then wouldn't your shadow just ...  we caught the guy.  really? have you talked to dr. banton?  i don't think you know anything about this case, which is why you stuck it with detective ryan. and i think you should allow her to decide how to proceed.  transferred? where?  i don't think you fully appreciate this man's condition or the danger that he poses.   soft light. he needs soft light. 
 hope you know what you're doing, scully.  putting detective ryan's ambition ahead of all good sense in this case.  the difference is you never put yourself ahead of your work, and that's what happening here.  and as a favor, we just handed over the a-bomb over to the boy scouts.  and i'm sure that robert oppenheimer got similar reassurances from his government, the same government that dr. banton is afraid of.  that man is scared, and it's not just of his own shadow.  we've both seen the physical evidence, scully.  i think i do. dr. chester a. banton. do you know him?  he's being held by the richmond police in connection with several bizarre murders. he's a physicist, researching quarks, gluons, dark matter. he believes the government is out to get him.  he believes his life is in danger.  yes.  at the yaloff psychiatric hospital, but not for long.  why?  yes, i know, and you can trust them as you trust me. i promise.   promise. what'd you find out, scully?  according to the floor nurse, there were three men.  somebody who would have access to plans for virginia power so they could take it off the grid without affecting surrounding facilities.  just because you're paranoid doesn't mean they're not out to get you, scully, but my guess is he was unsuccessful and dr. banton is on the loose.  i saw her leave.  well, maybe that was an appointment he was never meant to keep. let's go.  you heard what dr. banton said last night.  put yourself in his head, scully. i think the only reason he hasn't tried to kill himself is because he's afraid his death will release the dark matter.  whether or not dr. banton is actually telling the truth, he believes he is.  all that he's been trying to do since the accident is try to control this thing. now if he's escaped, he's going to go to the one place where he thinks he can do that, and we've got to get there first. i was afraid of this. 
  oh, damn it! 
 the accelerator. 
 scully, look at this. 
 he couldn't have. this chamber's been sealed from the outside.   you lied to me.  about chester ray banton. you knew who he was, and you used me to lead you to him.  i won't be your stalking horse, or the government's.   you killed dr. banton!  a nurse at the hospital identified you! a young detective is dead because of you! who do you answer to?  all right, promise me something right now. promise me this will be our last meeting. we're finished. 
 how you doing?  i know it must be hard.  i'm sorry i'm late, i got hung up at the richmond pd.  a missing person report was filed this morning by a dr. morris west. he's a physicist affiliated with polarity magnetics.  the missing person was dr. christopher davey. he hasn't been seen or heard from since banton disappeared.  no. none.  i've been wondering, what if it wasn't banton we saw in the particle accelerator? separator i dont know, scully, the mans vanished. he hasnt been seen or heard from in ten weeks.  chicken chase.  george kearns was a federal poultry inspector assigned to dudley, arkansas, home of chaco chicken.  they may "think" they are, but on the night george kearns disappeared a woman on the i-10 saw a strange fire in an adjacent field.  folktales dating back to the 19th century from the ozarks describe people being taken away by fireballs. it's supposed to be the spirits of massacred indians.  well, most legends don't leave behind 12-foot burn marks.  that photo was taken by state police in the field where the woman claims to have seen foxfire.  i thought so too. until i remembered this.  it's a documentary i saw when i was in college about an insane asylum. gave me nightmares.  unh, i was young. 
  his name was creighton jones. he pulled off the road on may 17, 1961 to take a nap. they found him three days later so deranged by what he'd encountered that he had to be committed. the state police found his car on the i-10 right in the middle of dudley, arkansas, home of chaco chicken. 
 that's a witch's peg. staking it into the ground is supposed to ward off evil spirits. 
 we're with the fbi. im special agent mulder. this is agent scully. were investigating the disappearance of george kearns.  why didn't you mention this witch's peg in your report?  what about the scorched area?  so you dont believe its foxfire?   this inspection report-- your husband was about to file it with the department of agriculture the day before he disappeared.  he never discussed his work with you?  well, he cited several major health violations. he was gonna recommend that the plant be shut down.  let me give you my phone number. if your husband tries to contact you i want you to get in touch with me. or if you can think of anything else. 
 whats that?  chickens feed on chickens?  if the fool would persist in his folly, he would become wise, scully.  im not so sure about that.  mulder: : let him go. were federal agentsscully. everyone stay calm. don't hurt him. just tell us what you want. dont get excited. just calm down. stay calm. we dont want anyone to get hurt. we can talk this thing out. why dont you give me the knife?
 what about you, dr. randolph? do you have any ideas?  but you can tell us whether george kearns came to you with any similar complaints.  mr. chaco?  it is, but we suspect that might have something to do with what happened to your granddaughter.  were not sure yet, but it's possible they may have both suffered from the same neurological disorder.   what am i looking at?  why didn't this show up on any of her charts?  could this be the reason she attacked jess harold?  is it fatal?  except that paula gray was no girl. this is her personnel file, scully. check it out. it says here that paula gray was born in 1948, which means that this woman-- chacos granddaughter-- was 47 years old.  let's find out. her birth certificate should be on file at the seth county courthouse. who knows, scully? this could be *even* more interesting than foxfire. 
 a lot more likely than paula gray being three years shy of her 50th birthday. 
 call an ambulance. ill try to get the driver out.  you're saying this is a third victim of creutzfeldt-jacob? you just got through telling me that two cases would be statistically impossible.  ooh, im listening.  so anyone eating chickens out of dudley would be at risk?  yeah, but chickens from dudley are shipped all over the country. if what youre saying were true, we'd be seeing an epidemic not just a few local cases. 
 sheriff arens? what's wrong with this water?  was this river searched after george kearns disappeared?  well, id like it dragged as soon as possible.  to see what's in there.  hopefully nothing. 
 look, sheriff arens, if you don't want to do it i can get some of my men down here to do it.  oh, it's just a hunch. if george kearns didnt run off, if he was murdered for that inspection report then his body's got to be somewhere. did you find kearns?  sheriff arens is outside. they're still pulling bones from the river.  how do you know?  what about the others?  well, they seem to have lost their heads.   its almost like theyve been polished.  no. that water had hardly any current and this level of erosion wouldn't be confined to just the ends of the bones.  maybe. 
 i had danny run a check on all missing persons last seen within a 200- mile radius of dudley. in the last 50 years, 87 people have disappeared near here and, judging from the forensic evidence, id say the same person or persons was responsible.  scully, i think the good people of dudley have been eating more than just chicken.  look at these bones. they've been polished at both ends suggesting they were boiled in a pot. anthropologists have used similar evidence to prove cannibalism among the anasazi tribe of new mexico.  that could begin to explain her youthful appearance.  some cannibalistic rituals are enacted with a belief that they can prolong life.  think about it, scully. from vampirism to catholicism, whether literally or symbolically, the reward for eating flesh is eternal life. i dont claim to know how it works, but we both saw paula gray.  the records at the courthouse should tell us how old she really is and if anybody else in dudley is lying about their age.  you coming? 
 someones been playing with matches.  i bet its no coincidence it only hit the birth records. 
  mulder.   are you all right?   who?   all right, mrs. kearns, i want you to stay in the house and lock the door and dont answer the door until agent scully gets there.   to take chaco into custody. 
 is mr. chaco in?  do you know what's in here?  can you open it?   scully, chacos not here.   chaco must have taken her. 
  scully? scully! scully! what happened? scully! are you there? 
  are you all right? answer me! scully!! 
  are you hurt?  you all right? 
separator what are you guys doing here.?  i'm not feeling well. i didn't sleep last night. i'm really not in the mood for the three stooges.  who would follow you.?  have you boys been defacing library books again.?  kennith suna.  what did he do.?   what.?  what are you coming to me for.?  what happened.?  sounds like a line i used in a bar once.  why.? what've you got.?  everything.?  you've read them.?  what makes you think they know who you are.?  you know they always denied that these files even existed. what do you want from me.?  come in and lock the door.  are you familiar with the ten commandments scully.?  no. just number 4, the one about obeying the sabbath, the part about where god made heaven and earth but didn't bother to tell anybody about his side projects.  the biggest lie of all. 
 the holy grail. the original defense department files. hard evidence that the government has known about the existance of extraterrestrials for over fifty years.  your friendly neighborhood anarchist. 
 i dont believe this. this is just gibberish. . damn it. i'm so sick of this crap, bs and double talk. i can't believe this.  it's a joke scully, it's a bad joke.  well can you find out.?  then find one of em.   yeah. i just haven't been sleeping. 
 sir.  about.?  why.? is this another jerk off assignment where i end up doing the government's dirty work.?  i don't know anything about that. .  oh. i took a pill.  i came home. i must be running a fever. maybe it's the threat of being burnt at the stake.  what did you tell them.?  well you told them the truth then.  okay, i'll say i'm sorry.  why.?  how would they find out.?  i'll tell you when i find out what's on it. now just tell me who i can talk to about breaking that code.  i'll try to find out. 
 i've thought of that scully. i honestly can't say. 
 mulder.  where are you.  dad. what is it.?  what choices.? dad.  about what.?  you're talking about your work in the state department.  what words.?  dad.? dad. dad . oh dad.  my father's dead scully.  they shot him and he's dead.  i'm on the vineyard.  i don't know.  i didn't do it scully, he was trying to tell me something.  you gotta believe me scully.  i can't leave the crime scene, it'll look like i'm running, make me look guilty.  he was shot with somebody else's weapon.  all right. meet me back at my apartment.  i'm okay.  you gotta find them scully.  we gotta find out who killed my father.  scully. . you took my gun. you think i did it don't you.?  well why didn't you ask me.?  what were you afraid that i was gonna shoot you too.?  so you can clear your conscience and your name?! you've been making reports on me since the beginning scully, taking your little notes!  look you have my files and you have my gun. don't ask me for my trust.  i'm gonna kill you anyway krycek so you may as well tell me the truth. did you kill my father.? did you kill him... answer me. .  he killed my father scully.  no scully... 
 you shot me.  why'd you shoot me? he's the one.  what are you talking about.?  how'd you know it was krycek.?  what is it.?  oh my god. there was a murder in my building.  i'd gotten too close to the truth. where are we.?  new mexico.?  or a bad one.  how'd you find him.?  what about you.?  you've taken a big risk.  thank you. thank you for taking care of me.  in what context.?  you said you knew i was coming.  but why me.?  i don't understand.  and what is the truth.?  you think they were abducted.  what's buried out there.?  mulder.  not hard enough apparently.  i'm at the betty ford center, where are you.?  i'll save the government the plane fare, i just need to know which government that is.  yeah, which things are those.?  no, he couldn't live with it because you had him killed.  now listen to me you black lunged son of a bitch, i'm gonna expose you and your project, your time is over.  this is a boxcar. (mulder and eric open the hatch into the boxcar) yeah, it's me.  nowhere i ever expected.  i'm in a boxcar buried inside a quarry. there are bodies everywhere.  stacked floor to ceiling.  i don't know.  what kind of experiments.?  but these aren't human scully. from the look of it i'd say they were alien.  i'm pretty damn sure. wait a sec... (mulder looks at the arm of one of the 'merchandise') this one... has a smallpox vacination scar.  oh my god scully, what have they done.? (the hatch closes. a helicpoter lands and black opps military rush out)