separator mulder? what are you doing? why are you sitting in my bedroom in the dark?  i'm not kidding, mulder.  what are you talking about, mulder? what's going on?   that's the dead man in your apartment?  how did he die, mulder?  have you contacted anybody at the bureau?  what are you talking about?  that the hoax is connected to the military, just like kritschgau said it was.  what? this is a pbx operator at the bureau.  who would he be calling at the fbi?  mulder, how long has this been going on?  that would mean that for 4 years we've been nothing more than pawns in a game, that it was a lie from the beginning. mulder, these men... you give them your faith and you're supposed to trust them with your life.   mulder, we can't go to the bureau making these accusations.  yes, sir.   i'm um.... i don't know what to say. they asked me to come down and identify the body.  i saw mulder earlier this morning. he was wearing the same clothes.   yes, sir. four years.  yes, sir.  but that's not why i'm here.  yes, that's right.  he had information about the discovery of what agent mulder believed to be alien corpse. he said the body was part of a hoax.  no... hard... evidence, no.  what knowledge?  yes. communications center, please.   holly, this is dana scully.  holly, i need your help on something. i was hoping you could help me with some information.  yes.  whose?  would assistant director skinner be at that extension?    thank you.  yes?  yes.  right. i...ah... i'm sorry i haven't gotten back to you.  well then they were animal cells that you found.  what do you mean? you said there was mitotic cell division.  they began somatic development?  i need to do a southern blot to run a culture of what you showed me against my own dna. you said that the unclassified cells you looked at under the em were full of virus.  a match. and i need it before seven.  it's got to happen. everything in my life depends on it. 
 what are you doing here?  no, you weren't. you followed me here. why are you following me? is this more dirty work you're doing for the dod?  i want an answer from you.  this isn't your job!  and what about yours?  all lies lead to the truth, isn't that right?  the truth. about the men behind what happened to me, about my abduction and the tests, about being exposed to something against my will, about being put on a table and having something implanted in me, and then having my memory stolen, only to have it return along with a disease that i was given.  are you afraid of that?  you're going to use that against me, aren't you. you're going to use me as i've been used all along. to preserve the lies.  except proof. the cruelest ironies are those consecrated by the passage of time, chanced and occasioned by shocking discovery. i had joined agent mulder because of my background in the medical sciences. my assignment was to question his work, to debunk his investigations, and rein him back into the fbi mainstream. now, as fate would have it, i am calling on these very same skills to prove that he has been the target of a scheme orchestrated by someone close to us in the fbi. someone we have trusted above all others. involved in a highly organized plot to keep a dangerous secret from the light of day. (we see mulder going through level 4, in a hallway, lower ceilings, air ducts and pipes exposed) i could only guess at what agent mulder may have uncovered on his own, what he may have found to confirm or deny what he has long held to be a conspiracy to control the public inquiry into government's knowledge and contact with an alien race or races. (back to scully) if he had hoped, as i do, to learn the identity of those who sought to destroy us, i had, with the discovery of this unidentified microorganism, what could amount to forensic evidence. hard and undeniable genetic evidence of the connection between the conspirators and the cancer which has now metastasized in my bloodstream. (mulder gets to the door cancerman used in the pilot! the vast room of shelves of files and evidence in the pentagon. he uses the code card. it opens. he goes inside. he walks through the rows of shelves) i have few short hours to conduct these tests before i must appear before an fbi panel to explain myself. and as i am ready to lie to them about agent mulder, i am also ready to confront them with proof. (back to scully) proof extracted from this tiny organism that could blow open a conspiracy of global consequence. (mulder's turn for voice over as he walks through the room) there it is.  my dna hybridized with the viral dna from the cell culture.  i know.  i believe that i was exposed to this material and that it is responsible for giving me a serious illness.  one which cannot be cured. yes sir. four years ago, section chief blevins assigned me to a project you all know as the x-files.  as i am a medical doctor with a background in hard science, my job was to provide an analytical perspective  on the work of agent fox mulder, whose investigations into the paranormal  were fueled by a personal belief that his sister  had been abducted by aliens when he was twelve. i come here today, four years later, to report on the illegitimacy of agent mulder's work. that it is my scientific opinion that he became through the course of these years, a victim. a victim of his own false hopes, and of his belief in the biggest of lies. senior agent: : you were contacted by a man who claimed that he worked for the department of defense. a michael kritschgau. he told you that mulder had been taken in by a hoax. yes, sir.  he told me a story which detailed point by point the systematic way in which agent mulder had been deceived and used.  and how i as his partner had been led down the same path, losing a family member due to my allegiance  and contracting a fatal disease, which i was being told was engineered by the men who were responsible for agent mulder's deception.   what i couldn't tell agent mulder what i had only just learned myself, was that the cancer which had been diagnosed in me several months earlier had metastasized. and the doctors told me short of a miracle it would continue to aggressively invade my body, advancing faster each day towards the inevitable.   early this morning, i got a call from the police... asking me to come to agent mulder's apartment. the detective asked me... he needed me to identify a body.  agent mulder died late last night from an apparent self-inflicted gunshot wound to the head.   yes, sir.  yes, sir. but i have proof against the men behind this... of the lies that i believed. what i have here is proof undeniable... that the men who gave me this disease were also behind the hoax. a plot designed to lead to agent mulder's demise and to my own. planned and executed by someone in this room..  what i have here is scientific evidence--  you... separator mulder, what are you doing here?  mulder, somebody's going to see you here.  what happened?  mulder, don't try and protect me. i need to know.  did you find out who in the fbi is involved?  yes it does.  mulder, skinner has evidence against you. he knows that you killed that man they found in your apartment.  mulder, skinner's dirty. he's not your friend. i'm almost certain that he's the man inside on this.  if you testify, he will use it to ruin you.   he's been in a position to know everything from the beginning, everything that we've done over the past four years.  well then, you have to lay it on me. you have to tell them that i was the one who killed that man.  yes, you can. mulder, if i can save you, let me. let me at least give some meaning to what's happened to me. 
 hi, mom.  i think ... that everybody here has their heart in the right place. but i need it to be my decision.  i know you're only looking out for me, bill. but i don't think you have all the facts. 
 yes. i am.  i'd like to try this. um... either it's my head or i'm a long way from med school but i can't remember what you're injecting me with.  you're not holding your breath are you?  have you ever witnessed a miracle, dr. zuckerman?  isn't that a miracle?  thank you. i'm so sorry... i fight and i fight and i fight... but i'm so stupid.  i've come so far in my life on simple faith, and now when i need it the most i just push it away. i mean, why ... why do i wear this?  why do i wear this, mom? i put something that i don't even know or understand under the skin of my neck. i will subject myself to these crazy treatments, and i keep telling myself that i'm doing everything i can, but it's a lie!  but i have. in a way. and when you asked father mccue to dinner to administer to my faith... i just closed off to him.  i'm not getting better, mom.  yeah. the pet scan shows no improvement. 
 what are you doing here? you have a hearing.  came by for what? mulder, what is it?  a deal with who?  what happened this morning?  are you going to name him?  then they'll prosecute you.  mulder, even with the ballistics evidence, i can still be the shoot...  then why'd you come here if you'd already made up your mind?  you'll be in my prayers.  separator ummm.... i think i went to a constructive problem solving course when i first joined the bureau.  mulder?  mulder? weve got this conference. theyre waiting.  you want me to tell them that youre not going to make it to this years teamwork seminar.  since you wont be making it to the conference ....  however, i must remind you this goes against the bureaus policy of male and female agents consorting in the same motel room while on assignment.   well, what does that have to do with anything?  i thought this was just a ploy to get out of the conference.  mulder, were in western florida. the closest thing to primitive down here is living in a beachfront retirement condo.  where are you going?  you know, mulder, sometimes i think some work on your communication skills wouldnt be such a bad idea.   okay. i get you. thank you. all right.   local pd has all their resources looking out for a transient, a drifter whos wanted for a double homicide in gasden, alabama. they were amused when i told them what we were doing.  why do you say that?  but for what purpose?  what enemy would that be?  you think this is about a housing tract?  anything?  isnt that a little strange?  well, it sure is beautiful, though.  what do you think killed those men?  walt whitman?  what is it?  theyre trying to separate us pull us away from the others. lets go back. 
 michelle? michelle?! jeez.  mulder, i need help! mulder! 
  over here!  over here!  i dont know.  she was walking right ahead of me. she was right here, and then she was just gone.  what the hells happening here?  mulder, hes right. we werent prepared for this. we have no way of telling them where we are. we dont have any food. michelle had our only water. look, id like to find her, too, but i think the risks of that are just way too foolish.   i dont have much faith that this device will do us any good.  whatever it is that we were chasing did show up on the screen at first.  nothing.  except that were going in the right direction.  ticks. ive heard that they can halt their metabolism for up to 18 years, essentially going into suspended animation until something warm-blooded comes along.  why is that interesting?  what would that be filed next to - - "the cockroach that ate cincinnati?"  what do you mean?   everybody stand still. theres something out there. 
 about 40 or 50 yards out.  i saw it. the woods have gone silent again. 
 talk to him.  talk to him, jeff!  mulder, its not on the screen. 
 i got it.   i dont know. it just stopped.  six, maybe seven.  yep.  what the hell is it, mulder?  mulder? mulder!!   mulder!!  you okay? 
 you were an indian guide. help me out here.  i would, but i left my wallet in the car. 
 trying to open my gun.  if i can separate the shell from the casing maybe i can get the powder to ignite.  do i detect a hint of negativity?  mulder, you need to keep warm. your bodys still in shock.  well, maybe if it rains sleeping bags, youll get lucky. 
 have you thought seriously about dying?  when i was fighting my cancer, i was angry at the injustice of it and its meaninglessness. and then i realized that that was the struggle to give it meaning. to make sense of it. its like life.   i guess its like las vegas. the house always wins.  oh! ta-da.  i identified with bettys bustline.  could never have been married to barney, though. the kids were cute.  moth men? really?   get over here. im going to try and keep you warm.  sorry.  you sleep, mulder.  im not going to get tired.  no ... mulder.  mulder, you dont want me to sing. i cant carry a tune.   jeremiah was a bull frog --- 
 ... was a good friend of mine. never understood a single word he said... 
 ... but i helped him drink his wine. 
 joy .... to the world. all the boys and girls. joy to the fishes in the deep blue sea. joy to you and me. 
  mmmm....over here.  im looking for food. i found some wild berries.  mulder, you never left my sight.    im down here.   i fell down a hole.  
 yeah, i landed on soft dirt .. kind of.  i dont know. its pretty dark.  oh!   i found michelle.   not for much longer. mulder, we have to get her out of here.  i dont know. i .. im in some kind of a chamber. theres .. theres like some kind of network.  mulder...  im not alone.  i dont have my weapon. mulder!?  jeez!! mulder, are you okay?  mulder, look. there has to be a scientific explanation for this. if they could see us now.  were down here!  we need a ladder.  mulder, whats going on?  kay.  yeah. 
separator scully, fbi. can you tell me what's going on here?  i received a phone call from this address. it was a woman's voice. she said that somebody here needed help.  about 20 minutes ago.  please, can you tell me what happened here? 
 i thought it was a dead woman, just not the one in there.  i know it's not possible, bill, but it sounded just like her.  our sister... melissa. what was their explanation?  excuse me. 
 nothing. mom, i'm very happy for bill and tara.  oh, mom. several months ago, i learned that as a result of my abduction, of what they did to me, that i can not conceive a child.   it's okay. i just never realized how much i wanted it until i couldn't have it. who is this? why are you doing this?  mr. sim, my name is dana scully. i'm sorry for your loss and i'm sorry to disturb you at this hour.  i received a phone call less than an hour ago. i was addressed by name and told that i needed to help someone... a woman. i traced the call and it came from your house.  this is the second time this has happened, and i'd really like to get to the bottom of it.  yes.  i understand.  i'd like everything you have on the roberta sim case.  whatever you call it, i'd appreciate seeing everything that you have.  in the spirit of the season? later
 it says here that your precinct visited the sims before. two weeks ago. a domestic disturbance call?  they ran a tox screen?  it says they turned up high levels of doritriptan.  i'd like to borrow this. 
 she's adopted.  danny, it's me, dana... yeah, merry christmas to you, too... i, ah, i'm wondering if you can do me a favor... i need the complete case files on my sister, melissa scully. yeah, crime scene and autopsy along with the pcr's that we ran. right, but i need you to send them to the san diego field office. as soon as possible. ok. thanks, danny. 
 what?   some of it.   just some unfinished business.  i've got a little work to do. can i join you guys later?  i'll... i'll rent a car.  i'd like to order an autopsy on roberta sim. there's a possibility she was murdered.  i think that it may have been the husband.  no. thanks.  i took another look at the police photos this morning. there were no hesitation cuts on roberta sim's wrists. suicide victims seldom make the fatal cut the first time.  no. why was the phone off the hook when you got to the sim's house?  your report says the husband called the police after he discovered his wife dead.  but if the phone was off the hook when you arrived, how did he call you? did he find the phone off the hook, call you, then have the presence of mind to return it to the way that he'd found it? does that make sense to you?  i am suggesting that there are questions that beg for further investigation. order an autopsy. stomach contents appear to include coffee, whole wheat toast and cantaloupe. no medicine tablets. empty sample packets of doritriptan succina were found but i find no evidence that any of the pills were ingested.  then why didn't it show up in her stomach?  no. i don't believe absorption would be that complete, not that close to her death.  on the heel of her right foot. extremely tiny and easy to miss. it was meant to be overlooked.  i believe that this woman was injected, anesthetized so he wouldn't fight back. then her suicide was staged.  i say it justifies opening a murder investigation. mr. sim, where is your daughter now?  we'll check that out.  i want you to analyze this. get a pcr on the blood. we need to identify whose it is. 
 mom... sit down.  the woman who committed suicide has an adopted daughter, a three year old named emily. i got a sample of emily's blood and i had the lab run a test on her dna. it's called a pcr test. this...  is emily's.  and this, is melissa's which we ran during her murder investigation. they match.  it means, that this little girl emily... is melissa's daughter. later
 you can't deny that there is a remarkable resemblance.  mom, it's uncanny. emily looked exactly like melissa. that's why i ordered the pcr test. because her face may change, but her dna can't.  there's a 60% chance that melissa is emily's mother. i'll order a more comprehensive test, a rflp. it'll take a couple of days, then we'll be sure.  mom, remember about four years ago and melissa took off? she traveled up and down the west coast, we didn't know where she was half the time.  that was 1994. emily was born that november. she could have given it for adoption and none of us would have ever known.  mom, this has nothing to do with what i'm going through.  i'll be right down. not a problem.  what?  from where?  dr. calderon?   i'm agent dana scully with the fbi, this is detective kresge with the san diego police department.  you knew mrs. sim?  what were you treating her for?  what's her prognosis?  then why were the checks made out to her mother?  she wanted to pull emily from the program?  dr. calderon, did you ever prescribe doritriptan injections to emily during her treatment?  where's emily?  lets get you right in there. (she locks the car seat.) lets get you buckled in here nice and safe, ok? (emily sees her cross necklace. emily touches it as scully touched emily's head.) you like that, huh? (emily smiles. scully takes it off and puts it around emily's neck. the woman puts her hand on scully's shoulder. it's time to go. scully looks at emily again.) i'll see you again soon, ok? (emily nods. scully gets out of the van and the woman shouts the door. scully and emily connect with each other are the woman gets in the driver's seat, starts the van and pulls away. what's up?  what do you mean?  i did.  we did.  yes, i do.  it does not matter where that phone call came from. what matters is that there is a little girl who needs my help.  bill, i don't expect you to understand but i am not going to stand here and justify my motive.   hello?  he admitted to being in the house that morning?  what about the witnesses who said they saw him in the doctor's office at the time of the murder?  maybe they weren't. where is he now?  did they identify themselves?  how long were they here?  just now.  marshall sim, emily's adoptive father is dead. they made it look like a suicide, just like his wife.  no.  i think it might.  bill, that doesn't prove anything. melissa didn't have to be pregnant to have a baby. there's... there's in vitro fertilization, there's surrogate motherhood.  what dream?  hi. thanks for coming in on christmas eve.  i don't understand. i mean, i think i have a right to know why you're rejecting my application.  well, it's one i've given a great deal of thought to. i mean, to be honest, i've started to question my priorities since i was first diagnosed with cancer.  i feel like i was given a second chance. ever since i was a child, i've never allowed to let myself get too close to people. i've avoided emotional attachment. perhaps i've been so afraid of death and dying that any connection just seemed like a bad thing... something that wouldn't last. but i don't feel that anymore.  i realize that. and i feel like i'm ready.  merry christmas.   melissa?  i couldn't sleep.   i guess i'm afraid of making a big mistake. i could tell dad sure thinks i am.   i know that. you know, when i first started med school, it felt so right. it seemed like that was where i was supposed to be. and then by the time i graduated, i just knew it was wrong. but now the fbi feels right. and... what if that's wrong too?  god! you sound like a greeting card. i don't believe in fate. i think we have to choose our own path.  which is what?  merry christmas.   it's the dna test on emily sim's blood.  it says, definitely, that melissa is not emily's mother, but that they found striking genetic similarities between emily and melissa, so many that they ran a test against another sample that they already had.  according to this... i am emily's mother. [to be continued ...]separator uh, mrs. berkowitz? you said that you also had a son?  and izzy is the product of your union with some kind of intruder?  did you report this to the police?  was there an investigation?  and now youre pregnant again?  you were gone for three days, but nobody missed you?  do you drink, mrs. berkowitz?  is there no chance that your son could have put it there?  mrs. berkowitz? you gave a description of the intruder. you said that he had a gross face and lumps on his head?  funny. sounds just like this.   we were wondering how this suspect in your mothers case looks exactly like this?  youve seen the great mutato?  has it crossed neither of your minds that what you say you saw that night fits perfectly with this creature that your son created?   peanut butter sandwiches? 
 why are you humoring them, mulder?  so is perjury. so is calling out fbi agents under false pretenses.  isnt it obvious?  i think that what were seeing here is an example of the culture for whom daytime talk shows and tabloid headlines have - have become a reality against which they measure their lives a culture so obsessed with the media and a chance for self-dramatization that theyll do anything in order to gain a spotlight.  but common sense alone will tell you that these legends, these unverified rumors are ridiculous.  is there anything that you dont believe in, mulder? 
 whats that sound?  whered it go?  we were just chasing what they told us was a monster.  what achievements are those?  well, im a scientist, for one.   i, uh i believe it has something to do with, um growth and development.  sir, unless you want your scientific achievements to end up as a footnote on the jerry springer show, i suggest that you make the time.  . growing out of his mouth.  despite what you might think, mulder, designer mutations like these are virtually impossible in humans.  mulder, even if they could, no scientist would even dare to perform this kind of experiment on a human.  to unlock the mysteries of genetics, to understand how it is that even though we share the same genes we develop arms instead of wings. we become humans instead of flies or monsters.  we already have that ability, mulder. its called "procreation." and first thing tomorrow morning, im going to verify the pregnancy of shaineh berkowitz. 
 we have reason to believe that you or one of your friends recorded our conversation last night and gave it to a newspaper reporter.  in order to promote you comic book monster that you created. 
  in the form of a hideous monster given the most horrific human attributes   what we cant possibly imagine 
 who the hell is that?  where are we going now?  mulder, this is just a dopey hoax.  and you think that dr. pollidori has something to do with it?  mulder, im alarmed that you would reduce this man to a literary stereotype, a mad scientist.  i have to admit, mulder. everything looks in order. mrs. berkowitz had a tubal ligation in 1993 and two months ago she had two pregnancy tests both with positive results. 
 what are you doing?  yeah. so? 
  come on get up! move! 
 mulder? 
 sir, with all due respect i think that this is all part of a hoax.  a shameless publicity stunt.   mulder. 
 if youre armed, drop your weapon and walk out slowly! 
 by whom?  what makes you think hes here?  theres only one way pollidori could have seen that monster if he was out here himself. 
 mulder. 
 federal agents, and were armed! come on out!  oh... 
 oh, my god.  were not going to hurt you.  do you think he understands?  he looks frightened.  we should go, mulder. the prisoners in the car.  what do you mean?  theres not going to be any bride, mulder. not in this story. separator emily? i'd like you to meet a friend of mine. his name is mulder. remember, i told you about him?  she's a little shy.  i'll be right back.  thank you for coming. something's wrong, isn't it?  you got a name?  fugazzi?  i don't understand. why create a false record?  how did she come into this world?  well, she was born to someone, she... she has to belong to someone.  i can protect her too.  i know... i've considered that, but i've also considered that there's only one right thing to do.   because i couldn't believe it. but i need you now to be a witness on my behalf in this hearing.  then why are you here?  it takes two of us just to get my sister-in-law into bed these days.  two weeks ago.  why didn't you tell me, mulder?  why would they do this to me?  children being created for who?  hello? hello?  hello, is anybody there?  mulder, it's ...  she's burning up.  oh, my god. 
 how is she?  do you know what's causing it?  i'm her mother.  i know that she was being treated for anemia.  i was told that it was some kind of auto immune hemolytic anemia. her treatment was experimental.  his name is calderon.  they have her under a mild sedative.  how did you know?  so what now? she's still just a little girl. you say i can't protect her, but i can't let this be her life. just a few days ago she was fine.  he can't do that. he's endangering her life.  it's an ethical violation .  well, authority or not, i'm not leaving her side.  can you give me a minute with her?  hey...  sweetie? in a minute a nurse is going to take you down to have some tests. we just want you to get better. that's what these tests are for. i hope you know what this is.  is it cancer?  can you put her on antivirals?  no, you can't do that. her immune system's too weak.  dr. calderon?  get dr. vinet in there and call the police.  dr. calderon?  halt! dr. calderon! fbi!  stop that man! 
 what do you mean, you've been following him. i just saw him. there was a scare here.  he was here, he came into emily's room. it appears he injected her with something.  she seems to be, but we're running a tox screen anyway.   what are you talking about?   mulder, that doesn't make any sense. why would he endanger her before only to protect her now?  detective.  thanks for coming down.  that might not be necessary.  there seems to be some indication that he came here to help her.  because emily's mother wanted to stop the tests, just like i did, and i guess that's why he came here because as much as they want to remove anything that gets in their way, it seems they need emily to continue the tests. i don't understand. just an hour ago you said she was getting better.  it's killing her.  ms. chambliss, i am a medical doctor. and the decisions that i make are reasonable and right.  no. that is not true. the injection that dr. calderon gave her is actually making her worse.  do you think i don't want what's best for this child? do you think that i'm not trying to save her life?  you can get a court order and you can try to enforce it, but i suggest that if you're going to do what's best for this child, then you do everything in your power to tell the authorities that if they take emily out of this hospital, they are going to hasten her illness. and i'll let it be known that all of you are responsible.   i don't know yet, but i will. 
 you okay in there, emily.  good. i'm going to be right here the whole time, okay?  now we're just going to put some extra air in there, so you tell me if your ears start to hurt.  you okay, sweetie?  turn it off!  turn it off, now!  hold on sweetie. settle down. we'll get you out of there as fact as we can. she's gone into a coma.  i'm okay, mulder. it's what's meant to be.  i wouldn't. i wouldn't do it to her.  mulder, whoever brought this child into this world... didn't intend to love her.  i have a chance to stop that. you were right. this child... was not meant to be.  i think i'd like to be alone. 
 i think i'll ride back with mulder.  bye, bye matthew.   who are the men who would create a life whose only hope was to die?  she found me.  how's detective kresge?  and the men who did this to him?  there is evidence of what they did. 
separator to win makes him feel important. he likes to think of himself as a ronan - a warrior without a master, adhering to the budo, the japanese way of war. in truth, he's a highly intelligent sociopath who has no fear of dying. in keeping with his game archetype, he likes to leave clues. this is why we expect to be contacted by him, hopefully sooner rather than later.  extremely weakened. the doctors here say that he can barely even walk.  yeah, mulder, i'm amazed he's even alive ... the condition that we last saw him in, comatose with a bullet in the head.  well, apparently one day about six months ago, he simply woke up. it's unusual, but it's not unheard of.  it still is.  he has a physical therapist. mulder ... what if modell plans to pick up where he left off? where does that leave you? you were his prime target. should you even be heading this investigation?  that it's exactly what he wants. that once again you're playing his game.  it says here that modell had a visitor yesterday afternoon.  it's marked lsc.   mulder? 
  time?   don't let him rope you in.  mulder, hang up the phone.  there's nothing back there.  appears as if he died from ingesting paint. i imagine that he did all of this and then drank what was left. 
  cerulean blue.  maybe his choice of victim. this is nathan bowman with the loudoun county attorney's office. he's the prosecutor that tried modell in 1996.  fox mulder.   yep.  it's him.  why bowman's wife? what would he want with her?  mrs. bowman? did your husband ever discuss his work as a prosecutor with you?  did he ever mention the name robert patrick modell?  yes, sir. 
 mulder?  well, hopefully, he wasn't capable.  well, we've seen that before.   where are you, mulder?  mulder, what happened? where's modell?   about 10 minutes ago. he can't have gotten far.  anything?   yes, agent mulder's fine. yes, sir. 
 how are you feeling?  it could have happened to anyone, mulder.  which was what?  whose game? his?  what are you talking about? of course he is. you said yourself that he was gonna pick up where he left off.  he killed nathan bowman.  mulder, this man's affected you. he's influenced your thinking.  a man is made to drink a gallon of cerulean blue paint. kitsunegari - fox hunt. you're saying now that's not modell?  that's your opinion?  how can you be sure it's your own?  your husband talked with you a lot about it.  is it possible that he could have mentioned you to robert modell?  what?  you tell me.  mulder, no. i'm sorry. you said it yourself, you said "don't listen to modell, don't trust him". but you've done both.  mulder, i think you should do what he says. 
  scully.  where are you?  mulder, you were told to lay off.  it was modell.  mulder ...  would have? you don't know that.  mulder, i'm not at the safe house.  we're at the chain bridge mall, investigating a suicide.    back in the trucks ...  did he try to speak to you?  we haven't found the gun yet.  for what possible reason?  linda bowman?  that's one hell of a plan, mulder. a serial killer makes us believe that he's guilty, in turn diverting the suspicion away from the real estate lady. well, he had me going.  they've taken her home. there is no reason to keep her in protective custody, mulder. it is over.  where are you going?  mulder, talking to him has already done you enough harm.  mulder ... 
  yes, we'd like an ambulance to 214 channel avenue. she has an advanced temporal lobe tumor, just like modell's. it seems to run in the family.  fraternal twins.  apparently, she only found out about his existence six months ago. they were separated when they were two weeks ago, raised apart. her "fox hunt" ... i'm guessing that she wanted revenge for what she feels we did to her brother. separator 12 pounds, 9 ounces.  most of it. the small amount in his lungs is what killed him.  well, im sure if mr. rich were alive he would find some humor in that. according to his police report, mr. rich was a man who could tell a joke. he grew up here. worked the same fields for 20 years. well liked around town. funny he should turn up murdered.  i have concluded is that this mans head was held forcibly down in the michigan mud just a little too long. most likely by his stepson who was named in the report as bobby rich. age 16.  there is some indication that his stepson may have dug the hole and that a recent rainstorm may have helped turn it into a muddy trap.  they say it rained 400 inches a day.  would you like me to show you how he may have done it?   he may have had an accomplice. and it came to a head last night?  what do you mean?  did phil instigate what happened?  could you tell that he was definitely trying to help him?  you know, theres a strong chance the police are going to arrest your son for murder.  but if they do, and if theres evidence of abuse that youre not coming forward with, it could hurt his chances.   theyre all dying. according to bobbys mother, thats a big reason why her husband blew up. his hazelnut orchard was hit with a blight. 
 well not in so many words. actually, she wont admit to any abuse in the house. i suspect shes just trying to move on and protect what family shes got left.  thats his excuse?  what do you think?  well, even if he didnt dig this hole, the disease could have killed root systems creating weakened soil. 
 well, when you fight for air a vacuum is created. and maybe once he sucked down a mouthful of mud it turned his esophagus into a siphon. with his head pushed down, it filled all of his passages like a gas can. 
 well you asked me for answers. those are the best ones ive got.  his mother says that bobby cant make friends. hes been in therapy for his anger since 1995.  someones watching us. sir? hello. 
 i dont know. hes gone. were agents mulder and scully with the fbi.  in what way?  if you know that bobby committed a crime, youre under legal obligation to tell us.  the victims name was eugene baiocchi, forties. he was a foreman for one of the local growers. single parent.  it had already been removed. i think its pretty clear what killed him, though. from what theyve put together, theyve all but concluded he was pushed out the window.  bobby. 
 can i have a moment with lisa? 
 three guesses who followed lisa home last night and was sitting out front in his fathers truck just minutes before this happened.  she thinks hes quite capable.  well, she says that he also threatened to kill a boy in school yesterday.  i dont understand.  how?  well, theres nowhere to stand. even if he did use a ladder thered be no leverage. i mean, especially for a scrawny 16-year-old kid.  sorry to interrupt.  i need to ask you to come with us, please.  to answer some questions.  i dont want to have to embarrass you in front of your class.  no, im not. 
  you just trying to scare him?   of what? 
 what are you looking for?  where did it come from?  what?  what? you think that bobby climbed this tree to pull lisas father out of that window?  who are you?  i didnt expect you to be standing right there behind me. you were watching us the other day in the orchard.  maybe you should come down here, mulder.  you, uh, know what kind of tree this came from?  you, uh you said these trees were dying. this, this splinters live wood. 
 is lisa still staying with you?  mulder, whatever youre hoping we find here without a court order, it wont be admissible.  mulder wheres the body? mulder, you still havent answered my question. what happened to karins father? why would anybody steal his body?  no. thats what we were doing.  what do you mean? 
 im a little afraid to ask what kind of connection. mulder: between the people of this valley and their livelihood : the trees. look at the victims, scully. bobbys father, lisas father mulder: and karins father, 20 years ago: all men who worked in these orchards -- their lives and deaths tied to these trees. we removed a sliver of greenwood from lisas fathers neck. and the bruise that you found on bobbys fathers ankle could have been caused by a root -- the same root system that pulled karins father from his grave. scully: mulder, there is a connection between these deaths one that provides a clear motive and intent: these were abused children what? so nature did it for them?  i called lisa at her aunts house 20 minutes ago and there was no answer.  mulder, weve already questioned him twice.  mulder  what the hell is going on here?  but how did he get here?  mulder, i  you think karin is the killer?  youre going to be okay. separator  scully. 
  mulder, i thought we had an agreement. we were both going to take the weekend off.   mulder, im on vacation. the weather is clear. im looking forward to hitting the road and breathing in some of this fine new england air.   why?   mulder, im hanging up. im turning off my cell phone. im back in the office on monday.  sir sir, what happened?  im .. my name is scully. im an fbi agent. what happened to you?   mulder, its me.   i am. im up in maine.   i dont i mean, i do. i .  what are you watching, mulder?   i, uh im at a market here. im just trying to give the local pd a handle here.   well, im not quite sure how to describe it, mulder. i didnt witness it myself but there seems to be some kind of an outbreak of people acting in a violent, involuntary way.   toward themselves.   yeah. beating at their faces, clawing at their eyes. one man is dead.   self-inflicted, it appears.   no, i dont think its witchcraft, mulder, or sorcery. ive had a look around and i dont see any evidence that warrants that kind of suspicion.   like evidence of conjury or the black arts or shamanism, divination, wicca or any kind of pagan or neo-pagan practice. charms, cards . 
  familiars, bloodstones, or hex signs or any of the ritual tableaux associated with the occult, santeria, voudoun, macumba, or any high or low magic?   yes?   i was hoping for something a little more helpful.   thanks anyway.    whos that woman right there?  shes the only one ive seen who looks unaffected.  you might want to talk to her. 
 yes. im on vacation. why?  hows that?  well, thats not the first time for that accusation in these parts.  look, to be honest with you, captain bonsaint, um, im not much of a believer in witchcraft.  but now youre not convinced?  what one thing is that?  who shes been carrying on with?  back doors wide open. 
 chief? take a look at this.  it looks like she was afraid of something.  you know her?  mm-hmm.  the daughters autistic?  slapped her? what for?  the little girl did?  this ah, this affair that the mother was having with the butcher ?  so, it was unrequited.  to the extent that shed have to nail her windows shut?  like what?  miss froelich, my names dana scully. im with the fbi. i just happen to be here on vacation , and uh  so, i just am helping out the chief here.  who?  new england hospitality. heard about it my whole life. finally got a chance to experience it for myself. 
 this family tree of melissa turners...  its all talk, isnt it?  well, i think you need to bring her in to straighten this out.  that she might know something.  well, about what im sure is a perfectly reasonable explanation for all of this.  well, i wish i could help you out. you know, im just on vacation. 
 with what?   hello?   mulder?   needed your help on what?   i was up and out this morning. mulder?   whats that noise? where are you?   dancing sickness.   yeah, and hasnt been diagnosed since the middle ages. 
  mulder?   thanks for the help.   yep.   no.  you know, chief bonsaint jack can i call you jack? ive been thinking that maybe maybe we need to explore other possibilities.  well, maybe we need to keep our minds open to extreme possibilities.  oh, my god! that looks like something out of jules verne. were supposed to eat that?  ive been thinking about melissa turner. now, you said that her husband died in a boating accident?  well, was there anything strange about that? about the way that it happened?  hows that?  was melissa ever questioned about that?  i saw that man at the market. 
 you were on board the night that he died. what do you think?  peoples stories change.  who do you blame?  and you know what killed him.  but you saw something in that grocery store. that little girl and her dolly.   scully   then whyd you call?   mulder, are there any references in occult literature to objects that have the power to direct human behavior? 
  um, like a doll, for instance.   yeah, kind of like that.    i was just curious.   no, no. of course not.  lets go talk to melissa turner. unh-uh.  melissa? melissa? bonsaint! 
  shes got the door nailed shut. shes trying to kill herself. 
 melissa! melissa!  melissa! 
 put it down, melissa.   give me the doll, polly.  polly, give me the doll.  i feel fine. 
 that poster whered you get it?  hmm.  no. i just wanted to send one to somebody.  mm-hmm.  oh, just some guy.  jack. "m" street?  what case? uh, yeah. yes it does.  me? no. no. i was, uh, i was on vacation. just getting out of my own head for a few days. what about you? did you, uh, did you get anything done while i was gone?  oh, i dont know. i think some things are better left unexplained. 
separator looks like they crashed the wrong party.  pico salazar?  a foreign national with his kind of connections? what would he be doing here, let alone in the country?  mulder, these are street level coke dealers... minor wholesalers at most.  what would they be doing here?  who?  and you recognize him?  why have i never heard of him?  i still dont see the connection.  so, why was gelman in there?  you think this was a hit on him?  mulder, did you take a look at him? why kill a man who is dying. his body is a bag of bones.   mulder, thats evidence.  your name is esther nairn? 
 arent you worried its going to track you, esther? hunt you down with another particle beam?  why didnt it just zap him, too?  unlike a dozen crack dealers.  why dont you just call him.  oh, right death from above.  t3?   yep.   dandy.   you are correct, sir.   in a manner of speaking.  about you and who.  what plans did he find out?  so you were going to  but donald gelman forbade it.  well, maybe he wasnt here when this happened. maybe hes somewhere else. 
 i cant get through to mulder.   it can interfere with my phone?  wait a minute. mulder said that he found the system. in an abandoned chicken farm in fairfax county.  you can do that?  esther ...  get away from the tanker truck! 
  sir? you need to get out of the truck. move it! its going to explode.  dump it, esther! get rid of it!  esther! dump it!  esther! get rid of it!  get rid of it , esther! 
 mulder, these women are spies!  mulder, they want the kill switch virus. what did you tell her?  i need to know!  do we have it?  do we have the kill switch?  mulder?! mulder, are you all right? 
 mulder?  mulder. mulder, can you hear me?  mulder? 
  mulder? help me out here, esther. whats its next move? what is it thinking?  who built this?  mulder?  mulder?  mulder, can you hear me?  mulder, talk to me. 
 well, we dont have it. you threw it in the water with the computer. 
 thats going to kill it, right?  give it what it wants, esther.  put it in, esther. 
 put it in! 
 youre going to be okay. im going to get you out of here.  okay. its okay. 
 what are you doing, esther?  what are you doing?  esther?!  where are you?  well, if esther wanted to leave her body, she got her wish. at least that part of it.  mulder, shes dead.   mulder, are you telling me that esther may have ... that she may not be dead?   electrons chasing each other through a circuit --- that isnt life, mulder. 
separator mulder? (the man is a sweating mulder! he turns to scully's voice. she runs to them. she stops as she realizes the teen is dead. she kneels down. mulder pulls the teen's lips apart to reveal fangs) mulder--  skinner wants our report in one hour. what are you going to tell him?  i'll tell him exactly what i saw.  first of all, if the family of ronnie strickland does indeed decide to sue the fbi for -- i think the figure is $446 million -- then you and i both will most certainly be co-defendants and second of all ... i don't even have a second of all, mulder. $446 million. i'm in this as deep as you are and i'm not even the one that overreacted. i didn't do the ...  with the thing.  where is your proof?  oh, you want our stories straight.  i don't feel comfortable with that.  all right.  the very beginning?  fine.  yesterday morning ... when i arrived at work, you were, uh ... characteristically exuberant. you want us to go to dallas?   exsanguinations? of whom? 
 is it a...? 
 is there any sign of --?  i wasn't asking that.  well, these may be syringe marks. their placement meant to emulate fangs. such ritualistic blood-letting points towards cultists of some sort, in which case ...  what?   you're not gonna tell me you think it's that mexican goat sucker thing.  so, instead, this would be...  of a bunch of cows.  why the hell didn't you tell me that from the beginning?  the town of chaney is too small to maintain a morgue facility. as such, we made our way to the peaceful slumbers funeral home in order to examine the body of one mr. dwight funt, recently deceased. it was there that we were met by a representative of local law enforcement, sheriff... no exam has been done?  well, my theory has evolved. basically, i think that we're looking for someone who has seen one too many bela lugosi movies. he believes he is a vampire, therefore...  well, someone so obsessed might well file down their incisors. i think that a moulage casting should help us make an identification.  well, there is a psychological fixation called hematodipsia which causes the sufferer to gain erotic satisfaction from consuming human blood.  mmm. there are also genetic afflictions which cause a heightened sensitivity to light, uh, to garlic -- porphyria, xeroderma pigmentosum.  you're gonna interrupt me or what?  anyway ... that's when you had your big ... breakthrough ... whatever. mulder, what's your point?  mulder ...  whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. what am i even looking for?   he does that.  heart weighs 370 grams, tissue appears healthy.  left lung weighs 345 grams, tissue appears healthy.  large intestine ... 890 grams, yada yada yada. later 
 stomach contents show last meal close to the time of death, consisting of ... pizza. topped with pepperoni, green peppers, mushrooms ... mushrooms ... that sounds really good. 
 having completed the autopsy i checked into the davey crockett motor court.  chloral hydrate.  what the hell happened to you?   yeah. that thing that you didn't know that you were looking for -- chloral hydrate -- more colorfully known as knockout drops. i found it in abundance when i sent the tox screen in on our murder victim. now, seriously, mulder. what happened to you?  my ...  "theory?" your vampire. he found it necessary to dope poor mr. funt to the gills before he was able to extract his blood ... probably did it to the cows, too.  exactly.  tonight? i just put money in the magic fingers!  this one's my room, mulder. don't get mud everywhere.  yeah. the guy in there'll pay for it. 
 foregoing both dinner and sleep, i was soon back at the funeral home examining one mr. paul lombardo from naples ...  florida. heart ... lung... large intestine.  as with the previous victim, it appears that the subject was most likely incapacitated with chloral hydrate, and then exsanguinated.  the drug was either injected or ingested. i'm not sure which.  scully.  hello? hello?  where was i? stomach contents.  stomach contents include ... pizza ...  chloral hydrate's in the pizza. the pizza guy.  mulder! mulder? 
 well, luckily, i'd gotten there in time. i mean, though you were drugged, you were ... more or less unharmed. mulder? are you okay?   long story short. though my first four shots obviously missed ronnie strickland entirely, with my fifth i was able to shoot out a tire on his car, forcing him to escape on foot. i left you behind and i entered the woods in pursuit. i assumed that you were incapacitated. then i heard screaming. when i arrived in the clearing, i found that you had caught up with him first and had ... over reacted. and that his vampire teeth were fake.  well, i'm going to argue that we caught a killer -- an utterly non-supernatural killer, but a killer nonetheless. and that your zeal to catch up with him was augmented by the chloral hydrate you were given.  excuse me?  mulder?  why don't you tell me the way you think it happened? starting at the beginning.  why are we going to dallas? 
 like what?  it's a dead cow.  why am i looking at six dead cows?  and?  on what do you base that?!  well, it's obviously not a vampire.  because they don't exist?  it's not that mexican goat sucker, either. hoo, boy. 
 he had big buck teeth?  no, he didn't.  and that's significant? how?   no exam has been done?  in short, sheriff, no. this can't be what it looks like. i think what we're dealing with here is simply a case of some lunatic.  who, uh, has watched too many bela lugosi movies. he wishes that he could transfigure himself into a creature of the night.   thank you.  if there's a point, mulder, please feel free to come to it.  now, why is it so important that his shoes were untied?  mulder, shoelaces?  on the corpse. you were going to tell me what was meaningful about finding untied shoelaces.  why skip ahead? what happened then?  mulder? you shot out the tires, and what then? don't you touch that bed. later 
 mulder? 
 you're saying that i actually hit him two times?  and then he sort of flew at me like a flying squirrel?  mulder, it's not just me. nobody in their right mind will ever believe that story.  mulder, please just keep reminding him you were drugged.  it wouldn't hurt.  but ... he was dead.  with a stake through his heart.  so we should find ronnie out here because ...?  oh.  but mulder, he had fake fangs. why would a real vampire need fake fangs? i mean, for the sake of argument.  well, so where the hell is he?  well, an aunt and an uncle. their mail comes general delivery to a local post office.  sheriff hartwell.   where are you going?  thanks.  you mean aside from the fact that i don't believe in them?  well ... they're supposed to be extremely charming. seductive.  no, i mean ... even if they did really exist, who's to say they'd actually be like that? as agent mulder says, there are many different kinds of vampires.  mulder?   i came to in the cemetery. that's all i know. 
 well, i can neither confirm nor deny agent mulder's version of events which occurred outside my presence.  anyway... i was drugged.  essentially. [fade to black]separator is there something i can help you with, agent spender?  about what?  you're going to tell me who this is?  your mother?  is this part of a case?  then why is he talking to her?  i think i understand. shouldn't that be my picture next to the headline? [the headline of the paper reads "all this conjecture about little green men - false, dangerous, delusional. -- panelist fox mulder" with mulder's photo underneath.] or is that just you having a little fun?  you look constipated, actually.  this wouldn't have anything to do with cassandra spender? [mulder is drawing a moustache on his own photo.] how's that?  well ... i guess i'm done here. you seem to have invalidated your own work. have a nice life.  her son accosted me in the hallway. he's an fbi agent.  he's of the same opinion as you, by the way - that she's not well.  you've come a long way, mulder.  cassandra spender was abducted at skyland mountain. that's where i was taken ... where duane barry took me.  it says here that she has an implant ... in the base of her neck.  oh, no, he, uh, he asked if you'd please not talk about this with anyone.  cassandra? miss spender? [cassandra turns around to face her.] i don't think so.  uh, yes, but not a practising one.  my name is dana scully and, uh, i'd like to ask you some questions.  may i? um ... i think you should know that i, uh ... i learned about you from your son.  yes. i'm an fbi agent and he asked that i protect against your story getting out.  i guess i'm betraying that by coming here. but, um ... but i - i don't ... i'm here for more personal reasons, actually. i took the liberty of reading your medical file.  that's not why i'm here.  i'm here because i, uh ... because ... i wanted to tell you that you should ... that you should not remove the thing that you have in your neck. not without possible consequences. um ... i became very ill. [cassandra smiles.] no. not as of this moment. [they start to walk through the rows of bodies.] they've all been burned and there are plenty more who are still being bagged as we speak.  well, it appears they all came by car. most of the dead are congregated in a wooded area a short distance off the road.  there's no evidence of that right now. there's no accelerants, no incindiary device.  there's no way to id their bodies right now. it's going to be a painstaking dental process. mulder, why are you tiptoeing around the obvious fact here? i mean, this is skyland mountain. we're right back here on skyland mountain.  well, you can't deny the connection.  no ... i'm not saying that.  what do you mean by evidence?  well, are you going to give me your theory, then?  for what?  "major depressive disorder characterized by periods of sustained anxiety and paranoia. patient believes he will be contacted or called to an undisclosed place where he will be abducted by aliens."  by whom?  mulder, that doesn't make sense.  but they weren't abducted. they were led to their deaths. and for what purpose?  now, mulder ... [the phone in the office rings.] maybe you shouldn't be so quick to rule out what cassandra spender has to say. [mulder nods slowly, then picks up the phone and answers.]separator mmmmm ... what time is it? [mulder can't help but laugh.] why are you laughing? [scully sits up, and mulder presses the button to elevate her bed.] mulder, what am i doing here?  from what?  from what?  mulder ... [her eye is caught by the television behind him. on it is a scene showing the ruskin dam. the volume is down, but supertext tells the story.this second cult suicide in southwestern pennsylvania -- the site of over 50 deaths so far -- with many more members in serious or critical condition. authorities are still attempting to learn what was behind this bizzare event.mulder turns to face her.] i was there? [mulder sighs, indicating that she was.] doing what?  well, mulder ... [standing outside the doorway, mulder gives her the thumbs-up. outside the room, mulder is confronted by spender.] i don't know what to say. i mean, i - i don't have the first clue. there's nothing here.  mulder, i have never been here. i couldn't tell you how to get here, let alone drive it.  she was there, too? [mulder nods.] you found more implants? [again, mulder nods.] yeah, but it wouldn't explain why they would want to kill me. and it doesn't explain why i survived.  mulder, when i met you five years ago, you told me that your sister had been abducted ... by aliens. that that event had marked you so deeply, that nothing else mattered. i didn't believe you, but i followed you, on nothing more than your faith that the truth was out there, based not on facts, not on science, but on your memories that your sister had been taken from you. your memories were all that you had.  well, whether you trust them or not, they've led you here. and me. but i have no memories to either trust nor distrust, and if you ask me now to follow you again, to stand behind you in what you now believe, without knowing what happened to me out there, without those memories, i can't. i won't. [mulder stands and looks out the window.] is that what you really want? [from his expression, we know that he's not sure. we then cut to a black and white photo of the captured faceless man, along with two military officers  the photo is being held by the first elder, who then passes it along to the second elder. the members of the syndicate  are standing around a circular table, through which they can see the comatose marita covarrubias.] i'm okay.  uh, once ... but i have to be honest with you, i didn't have much luck.  oh, my god! [we cut to the image of the ufo that she saw, and from now on we continue cutting to and from this "night place" to dr. werber's office.] oh, my god! oh, my god!  oh ... i'm, uh ... i'm with the others.  yes. [cut back to the ufo, which shines a concentrated blue light on cassandra, who is next to scully, but withdraws the light beam and quickly flies off.] and then ... and then it was gone. oh, oh! [scully reaches out and mulder takes her hand.] it's, uh ... they're back.  oh, they're ... they're on fire! [people are writhing around on fire.] they're setting them on fire. i can't ...  their faces, i ... they have no faces. i ... they have no eyes. oh, god! they're coming at us! [the faceless men move toward scully. quiet willy turns to face her, draws a gun, and races toward the faceless men who are still setting people alight.] they're surrounding us! they won't stop! they won't stop! there's ... there's another one. there's another ship. [another ufo flies over the faceless men and flashes lights over them, blue lights, setting the faceless men alight.] they see it. they were attacking them.  the ... the faceless men. they're ... oh, my god, i can't -  no. now it's coming at us. oh, my god! no! cassandra!  they're ... they're taking her. they're ... oh, my god. [all the abductees reach their hands into the air as cassandra closes her eyes and is taken into the air from her wheelchair, until she has disappeared from sight.] i can't ...  no. i ...  okay. [she opens and rubs her eyes, and turns to face mulder, who is sitting beside her.] you've been here the whole time? [he nods, and gets up to leave. we cut to skinner's office, where skinner has the tape on his desk. mulder and scully sit opposite him.] no, sir. neither was i.  i've listened to the tape several times, and i don't have a clear recollection of what i hear myself saying, but i also don't see any reason why i'd be saying it.  well, we - we don't know anything more.  did he say why?  no, actually, agent mulder hasn't.  i thought you were here about your mother.  we talked about how she was feeling. we talked about a lot of things.  in what way?  is that what you were afraid people would find out?  i don't understand.  she told you to say those things?  for what?  why are you here, agent spender? why did you show this to me?  i think that dr. werber would beg to differ.  i appreciate your opinion, agent spender, but i don't have a mother feeding me abduction stories.  mulder? what are you doing sitting here in the dark?  thinking about what?  well, i've just taken a long walk and i've reconsidered that i may have been wrong about what i believed happened to me.  what is this?  mulder, he's armed and well within his jurisdiction. [inside the booth, the officer dials a phone number and begins to speak into the phone. the gate opens for the truck to exit, and scully looks at the driver of the truck. it is the now-dead quiet willy.] i know this man.  that driver. i know his face. [the officer looks out the window at mulder and scully. he speaks into the phone and mulder watches the truck.] what happened? separatorseparator the deceased is paco ordonez aka little monster. street dealer. liked to use grade school kids as couriers. out on bail for possession with intent. two-time loser looking at life.  the killer carved a single c-shaped cut up through the right kidney. fatal blood loss came in under 30 seconds.  her juvenile records are sealed, but detective pennock has it on authority that two of them were drug busts possession, and possession with intent.  ms. glenn took a $60 cab ride alone straight to the motel. the cabbie instructed her to room 10, which she asked for specifically, and then told him to get lost. 30 minutes later, dead heroin dealer.  uh, special agent scully. wed like to ask you some questions, marty.  im curious why youve refused your right to an attorney.  well, you could be charged right now .. for the fact that youve given no compelling reason why you were in that motel room. what were you doing there, marty?   the cabbie has given a statement that you asked specifically for room 10, which would put you at the murder scene right about the time of death.  if you were involved in any way.  did you intend to buy drugs from paco ordonez?  did you kill him?  she wouldnt explain her presence in the crime scene, and she avoided all discussion about the murder weapon.  detective, did you snake all of the plumbing in the bathroom?  well, if we find the weapon with her fingerprints on it, shes as good as convicted. short of that, she's gonna walk.   okay.   scully.   about what?   how do you know that she knew him?   would you like me to remind you why polygraphs are inadmissible in court?   well, maybe she was, mulder, but dont make me state the obvious. she didnt see anything.   well, how else did she see? bat vision?   well, mulder, when you figure it out, give me a call.  
 detective pennock. 
 theres no way that she could fool the machine?  but she is still our best and only suspect.  want to hear the latest?  detective pennock ran the gloves for blood typing and found two different samples, one type matching marty glenns.  yeah, well, all the same im going to hand deliver them to the lab in washington, expedite a pcr to see if shes a match. mulder; look at her.  do you really think shes capable? ill let you know as soon as i get the tests back. 
  mulder.   ive got the pcr results on the two blood types from the gloves. neither was martys. you were right, mulder. she didnt do it.  she told you hed be in there?  what made her decide to cooperate? mulder; she wants to stop him. all of a sudden? i mean, if shes so anxious to stop him, why didnt she tell us his name before now?  well, yet, according to you, shes been seeing through his eyes the whole time.  when the murders started.  well, if all this is true, let's go get him.  mulder?  how did you know he wouldnt be in there?  shes still protecting him?  what do you mean?  mulder... separator bless me, father, for i have sinned. it has been several months since my last confession.  father, im an fbi agent. ive taken it as my code and purpose to uphold the law to save lives.  in a way. i was here for easter services last week and father mccue approached me for my help.  because there was a family that he felt needed my help. but it was more than that. father, i had a daughter who died a strange and sudden death several months ago.  yes.   father, i told you that i had a sin to confess but the sin of which im guilty im not sure if you can offer forgiveness.  an innocent girl is dead because of me. i couldve saved her life, but i let her die. ive been trying to make an effort to come more often.  no, im afraid i dont.  no, i didnt.  are you asking for my help?  oh, father mccue said that, uh, that youve been having trouble getting much information about what might have happened to her.  what do you mean?  could somebody have taken her out of her room?  mrs. kernof was talking about her husband, but she might as well have been talking about me.  i felt drawn to these people, father in a very personal way. i was determined to help them understand why their daughter had been taken.  as much as i have my faith, father, i am a scientist trained to weigh evidence but science only teaches us how not why. you think it was lightning?  her mother said that she was found in a kneeling position.  why do you ask?  looks like there was surgery done on her hands.  whats the connection?  dara kernof was adopted. i dont suppose that youve requested any information about the birth mother.  no, thats okay. i, uh i have someone i can ask. somebody id like to confer with, actually.  hello? 
  hi .. uh, somethings come up. i was, uh, hoping that you could do me a favor.   this isnt official fbi business so i was hoping that we could keep it outside of work.   i need some birth and adoptive records on a dara kernof.   dara kernof. i cant tell you much more than that, mulder. im sorry.   not until you get me those records.  what so you mean?  mulder, its not what you think. i - i didnt want to involve you. i got asked to look into this as a favor for a family.  you found daras records?  i think one of my questions has already been answered. dara was a twin.  uh, yes, as far as i know. why?  put there by whom?  not as of this time.  uh, its doubtful. paula koklos was severely impaired -- physically and mentally as was dara kernof.  it appears that their eyes were burnt out. their bodies frozen in a position of prayer.  they might.  what makes you so sure?  mr. starkey, do you happen to know if that cross over there belonged to paula?  did she have any visitors or anybody who might have left it behind?  by who? what kind of church is this?  father gregory?  im dana scully. were here about the death of paula koklos.  are you all right, father?  do you know where she is?  we were looking for her name. its not listed on the girls birth records.  the other two girls may be in danger. were hoping that she might be able to help is find them.  can you give us a name?  i brought agent mulder on the case to help temper my feelings to keep them from clouding my judgement. i wouldnt admit it to him, but as we stood there, i felt as if father gregory were speaking directly to me in a language only i could understand.  yes. i think youre a little extreme in your judgment, dont you, mulder?  well, he said this wasnt done by the hand of man. do you think he believes that, too?  what?  but, basically, youre ruling out any element of the supernatural?  well, dara kernof was baptized on the day of her death. she was sanctified by the ritual sacrament submerged in the spirit..  i was raised to believe that god has his reasons, however mysterious.  the victim is paula koklos, age 16, cause of death unknown. ill begin with the external examination.  victim has signs of congenital physical defects including four supernumerary digits. the only indications of external trauma are the burning by means unknown, of both globes of the eyes.  im noting something on the shoulder a bony process of some kind, possibly a tumerous mass. no- no indication of surgical procedure.  the mass appears on both the right and left clavicle. 
  oh, god.   i told myself that it was all in my head a hallucination brought on by my emotional connection to the case.  but thats not what it was, father. i was meant to see emily for a purpose.  to save these girls.  what do you mean?   where?   well, mulder, if she shares anything with her sisters, she wouldnt be walking anywhere far.   theres evidence of a progressive degenerative bone disease and, uh, i know youre going to think that im crazy but i swear i found evidence of something winglike. 
  mulder, theres something else  st. peter would only be crucified upside-down out of humility towards christ.  yes.  he believed that he could find the last girl. but i already knew that i was meant to save her.  i wasnt sure. father gregory said that the devil claimed the lives of the first three girls.  i know now that father gregory was mistaken. the devil didnt take their souls, but the threat to those girls was real. and father gregory gave his life to protect them. father gregory called them messengers.  mulder, he knows where she is.  youre not going find her. i think youre being misled.  i saw emily. she came to me in a vision. 
 you go. go find the girl. im going to finish up with father gregory.  id like to get back in here.  father gregory?  father gregory? 
  hello?   hes dead, mulder.   father gregory. they found him alone in the interrogation room. no one can figure it out. there was a guard sitting right outside the room. 
 father?  im not sure if they should be, father.  ive seen things. things that have made me question if there arent larger forces at work here.  visions of my daughter emily, for one.  i considered that, um but then i saw something last night, which i which i cant explain. i saw a man in dark clothes but he had four faces. they werent human. 
 how did he bring back their souls?  do you think thats what i saw?  but i saw it, father.  father, do you believe that god has his reasons?  what is it?  trying to reach me for what?  theres no one here.   my name is dana. im going to get you out of there, okay? im not going to hurt you. 
 im going to take you someplace safe. 
 everythings going to be fine. 
 no, its okay. its all right. stay here. its okay. stay just stay here! its going to be okay.  emily.  emily? emily?! oh, god.   i felt sure of it.  no. i thought i could, father, but i cant.  yes.  you mean, accepting my loss?  maybe thats what faith is.separator  there. the bus.  whats he looking at?  mulder, hes watching you. 
 what just happened? whats happening?  i cant see anything! theres  there he is! hes heading west. hes on the move! hes on the move!  what? what! what? what are you seeing?  what?  wheres mulder?  mulder, respond!  i cant see a thing. mulder, suspect is armed and dangerous. pursue alpha with extreme caution. 
 mulder! damn it! 
 what happened?  what do you mean?  i came in early. i wanted to take a look at the surveillance tape to make sure i wasnt crazy. what happened out there, mulder?  there were 12 agents yesterday in the park. we had ownership of the suspect. we were in position to make the capture and you let him get away. and from what i see now, you may have aided in his escape.  its on the video, mulder. i cant prove it was you, but i know what i saw. this man is a murderer. he is a terrorist. i have a report to give this morning. i expect you to give me an answer. i expect you to tell me the truth.  he was killed by means of a highly toxic biological agent.  we dont know. its affect on the dermis and the soft tissues, the rapidity of its action it is not a disease known in nature. it would seem to be genetically engineered. a bioweapon.  level four decontamination procedures were undertaken immediately. our best indications are that exposure was limited and that the toxin was transmitted directly and not contagious.  at this point, we can only guess that the toxin was transmitted by liquid or gas, touch or injection.  mulder. 
  maybe you can tell me whats going on.  there seems to be a problem. a man just told me you gave him keys to my room, room 130.  who am i? who is he?  mr. kaplan.  thank you.   not even close. 
 shi.! 
 exactly what agency are you from? obviously not the office of information. 
 what the hell is going on?  what about my life? i dont appreciate being run off the road.  i dont know what youre talking about.  his true mission?  why him? why choose agent mulder?  to what aim?  youve put agent mulders life in danger by not telling me.  including letting this man haley get away with murder? sir, we know nothing about this bioweapon. we dont know what they want to use it for. we dont even know if they have the capacity to store it safely. putting agent mulder in this situation is extremely risky.  what are you reading in there?   thank you. 
 i dont know. but its going to help us establish a method of delivery.  its doubtful the pathogen was airborne. they found no atmospheric traces. so its got to be something that everybody touched. 
 dont be alarmed.  mulder  i know what youre doing. skinner told me everything.  what happened to your hand?  oh, mulder, what did they do to you? god, this needs to be set. youre in pain. 
 lets get the swelling down. 
 theyve killed again, mulder. 14 people in a movie theatre in ohio. the same toxin they released in the park.  unless it was a test for something bigger. 
  why do this to you, mulder?   what stopped him?  its a bacterium.  was the bacterium also found on the ticket stub?  well, then how was the biotoxin spread throughout the theatre?  it looks like streptococcus.  but strep wouldnt be able to survive any kind of exposure to the environment.  developed by the russians?  well, then by whom? 
  the biotoxin was applied to the bearer bond with an aerosol spray, but there is no evidence whatsoever of it on the theatre stubs. now, i still have no idea how these kids were unaffected.   sir, are you alone?   id like to speak with you in private.   thank you. now, cia intelligence suggested that this biotoxin was stolen from the russians, but my research indicates that it was almost certainly developed domestically.   yes, sir, thats what weve been told, but the cdc database contains evidence of a streptococcus bacterium being developed by the armys pine bluff facility in the 1960s. it appears to be a very primitive strain of what were seeing here.   what im saying is that the bioweapons program may have continued in secret and that someone may be sending agent mulder on a suicide mission.   oh, damn.  the money. oh, my god, the money. 
  what stopped him?  director skinner, youve got to get to mulder. youve got to find the bank that they hit..  agent mulders life is in danger -- and anybody else who touches the currency at that location. theyre putting the biotoxin on the money.  youve got no choice.  well, hes got to be on there somewhere. 
 mulder.  we got here an hour ago before any of the funds were touched or transferred. the cash supply is being isolated. its being locked down in the vault.  i recognized you from the surveillance tape.  your finger. 
 mulder, before you go any further you should know that the biotoxin they used may have come from government labs. our government.  you knew about this all along. you knew about this the whole time! separator sir?  a threat assessment for whom?  what do you mean?  youre saying "i" a lot. i heard "we." nor do i assume that this case is just a waste of our time.  mulder   what?   on the case thats a total waste of time?   which one? theres hundreds.   "hiding in the light."  
 whos the agent in charge?  im scully. agent mulders partner. what can you tell me?  whos inside?  no. not until we get a clear idea of the situation.  if you make a phone call right now, it could compromise agent mulder. sir, we need to find another way. 
 no. if it was safe to do so he would have called us already.   who?  give it to him.  is he getting this?   you look exhausted.  agent rice has the situation in hand. lets get you out of here. mulder? 
 uh, no, mr. pincus. thank you very much for your patience. 
  whats going on?  mulder, why didnt you take the day off?  have you slept?  what exactly is it you think you have here?  mulder, youre not serious.  no.  well, what youre describing would be more like some kind of a visual agnosia, an inability to recognize whats before ones eyes.  mulder, he was disturbed.  he was mentally ill. this monster was a sick fantasy a product of his dementia.   no. no, i mean, this this kind of thing is not uncommon. you you went through a terrible ordeal and sometimes people in close associations under tense conditions, the delusions of one can be passed on to the other.  how?  no. no, absolutely not.  mulder, i am not going to serve the delusions of gary lambert, a madman, by giving credence to them.  mulder 
 sir? you wanted to see me?  sir?  agent mulder believes that there may be a connection between the oak brook incident and several other cases.  to the best of my knowledge, agent mulder is currently working on a legitimate investigation. i will join him in illinois immediately.  ill get right on it, sir.    no, sir. 
 lets start with the photos. in fact, lets just do photos. external exam only.  knock yourself out. 
  come on, mulder.   no. this man died late yesterday afternoon.  absolutely.  more or less what we thought wed find.  the body showed signs of decomposition beyond what we expected to find which, in and of itself means nothing, really. time of death is notoriously hard to quantify.  no, mulder  mulder, the case is over. theres no more evidence to be gathered. theres only my hope that youll be able to see past this delusion.  i wish it were that simple.  no. lets flip him.  yep. give me a hand. 
  ive come a long way, and i know he wants to see me, so what do you say?  i believe that agent mulder is mentally sound and fit for duty. aside from that belief, i can only present to you the few hard facts that ive been able to gather. that, as per agent mulders assertions a toxin has been found to have been injected into the spine of the shooting victim, mark backus. as of yet, weve been unable to identify it. furthermore, gregory pincus has apparently disappeared without a trace along with half a dozen other key witnesses integral to this investigation among them, agent mulders nurse at the hospital and several vinylright employees.   i can personally vouch for the fact that there was an intruder in agent mulders hospital room.   it was dark.  the truth as well as i under stand it.  folie a deux. a madness shared by two. 
separator