 mulder, he knows about your sister.  stop right there, sir! 
 mulder!  mulder! mulder! mulder! mulder!
 uh... i don't know...  please, i don't know. 
 scully.  i'm right where you left me, mulder. i'm sitting here in my car. because you wouldn't answer your phone and because i didn't know what else to do. 
 yes, i'm fine. 
 mulder...  mulder, he's coming after you.  the man you left for dead. he's alive.
 sir.  i heard that you were looking for me.  we're fine, sir. we've been searching for this man, jeremiah smith.  no. 
 i'm afraid we haven't exactly formulated any clear suspicions, sir.  sir? how much of it is there?  could it be some kind of cryptograph?  i'd like to get a copy of a portion of this. i might be able to figure it out. 
 maybe. there's somebody i want to run it by.  no. i think, sir, this is more along my field of expertise. 
 how did you know i was here?  i don't know.  concern him how?  has something happened to her?  is she in danger?  from whom? from whom? not until you give me some information first. these are data entries taken from social security records... all beginning with the letters s-e-p. you know what these are. confirm or deny.  smallpox?  what's that supposed to mean?  are you busy, agent pendrell? 
 good, because i think i've made some headway on this data. can you call up the files?  "sep." smallpox eradication program.  i got lucky, but the key is in this first string of letters. 
 you say "a twenty-letter code" to any scientist, and they immediately think "protein amino acid sequence..." which is what this turned out to be.  cowpox virus... the virus used to inoculate humans against smallpox.  i haven't worked that out yet, but the big question is this second alphanumeric string. fifteen digits. an inventory.  of us. 
 actually, it's an image created by what's called a confocal microscope. you're looking at a three-dimensional picture of the location of a protein. in this case, cowpox structural protein number six. it's one of the inoculants used in smallpox vaccines.  from me. i had a biopsy taken from the smallpox vaccination scar on my upper arm. through a process called immunohisto chemical staining and through the addition of an antibody for the cowpox virus six, i was able to get this picture of the location of a protein... a single, non-random, protein pattern.  what i'm saying is that i think this protein is a tag... some kind of genetic marker that was applied to me when i was inoculated against smallpox as a child.  not just me... all of us... quite possibly anybody who's been inoculated over the past fifty years. 
 i had my doubts... and i'm still not certain. but i performed the same procedure on agent pendrell. the location of the protein from his biopsy should be identical to mine, but it's slightly different, which might correspond to the alphanumeric entries collected by the men at the, uh, social security administration. i don't know, but it would have to be a government agency.  i don't know that either, and i think the only man who might be able to give us that information is jeremiah smith. 
 i am a scientist, sir. what i'm promoting in there is reductive evidence. it's the reason i believe i was assigned to the x-files in the first place, is it not? to put agent mulder's work to the test of science? excuse me.scully.
 i'm in skinner's office, where are you? 
 just tell me where. 
 mulder, i don't... 
 who? 
 oh, believe me, mulder, you're going to have it.  there's a lot of people who want to talk to jeremiah smith. 
 something's wrong. something happened.  oh, my god... mulder... 
 oh, dear... no... he's freezing. he's in, you're in shock, mulder.  as long as she's lying here, you can't give up on her. i don't care what the doctors say. 
 we don't know that, mulder. you can't blame yourself for what you could only hope.  i've seen things too. but there are answers to be found now. we have hope that there's a place to start. that's what i believe.  nothing happens in contradiction to nature, only in contradiction to what we know of it. and that's a place to start. that's where the hope is. 
 i feel it too. i know it.  i was warned... by a man we both know... who i believe knows the truth... who can lead us to a place to start.
separator have the local police been contacted by this woman's abductor? no demand for ransom?  any additional leads?  i'm still not sure how you and i figure into this investigation.  i assume that was taken by whoever it was who abducted her.  well, whoever it was that took this photo was obviously privy to the woman's abduction.  is that where you keep it?  mind if i take a look?  your film's out of date.  no, i was just making an observation.  all right, so he doesn't exactly stand out as a suspect. mulder, take a look at this. see this smeariness here. i'm thinking that it's heat damage. with the heater sitting under the film right there, the emulsion probably melted.  plus, the film is two years out of date.  the, the photographic chemistry could have changed. the, the dyes ... fade, they ... all right, so what's your theory?  she was a postal employee?  mary lefante's passport photo. do you know how soon she wanted to leave town?  did she know about your investigation?  and you think that she faked her own disappearance?  so you're thinking this woman planted that photo of herself in the drugstore?   i ... 
 what are you doing?  "thoughtographs?"  so that makes it legitimate?  oh my god!  who was here?  psychic photography? mulder, i think that it's obvious that somebody doctored these images and planted them to be found here. maybe as some kind of a smokescreen.  into their darkest fantasies.  twilight sleep.  no, it wouldn't. 
  give her a pet scan. 
 oh my god.  she's been given what's called a transorbital lobotomy. it used to be known as an icepick lobotomy. it involves inserting a leucotome through the eye sockets.  whoever did this, mulder, did it wrong. 
 mulder.  what about the missing woman?  what's her connection to the first victim?  yeah, the clock is running.  it might be significant as a word.  "unrest."  college.  i'm working on these crime scene photos from the first abduction. if we're lucky, we're dealing with someone who gets a vicarious thrill from returning to the scene of a crime.  how do you know?  is that what we're looking for here, mulder? more evidence of psychic photography?  i've got a bureau forensics team coming up from detroit.  we haven't found any new psychic photos here either. 
 wait a second. 
 i want to show you something. 
 right here. this.  and look. it's the same company. what if the kidnapper was working construction at both sites? from these two vantage points, he would have been able to pick out the two women.  where are you going to be?  what if it's not, mulder? this woman's time is running out.  what have you got?  what about day laborers?  gather officers to canvas.  which foreman was working the midlothian corporate park?  find out where he is today. i'll take that one.   hello? hello?  hello?  hello? 
 uh, i hope so. are you the foreman?   i'm special agent dana scully. i'd like to ask you some questions about the day laborers that you hire.  no, sir, not at all.  excuse me. sorry.   scully.  yeah?  unruhe.  stand where you are! 
 don't move! 
 stop or i'll shoot! 
 hands behind your head! do it! 
 alice brandt. the second woman that you abducted. that's her name, gerry. where is alice brandt?  tell us where she is, gerry.   explain this.  no, you used this to kill the two men.  you used this on mary lefante.  then why don't we get back to alice brandt. where is she?  it's over, mulder.  what the hell does it matter?  i don't. 
 mulder.  we just got a report of a strong-arm robbery. it's at the drugstore where the first victim disappeared.  what happened? 
  thank you.  it's gerry.  he also took morphine, scopolamine, hydrobromide and insulin syringes. he's making more twilight sleep.  you know, that job site that i arrested him at, mulder. what if he's ... what if he's already picked out his next victim? there were ... there were apartment buildings on all sides.  let's go.  corning.  send units to the 300 block of belmont avenue. check all of the apartments in the vicinity of that job site. i think he's heading back there.  thanks. 

 it means you need help, gerry. (he studies the photos for a few seconds.) no, gerry, stop! (he puts the tape over her mouth, and scully's cries are muffled. he picks up the leucotome, but hears the creaking noise of springs. he moves back to the door, while scully, still gagged, continues to try to free herself. schnauz looks out a peep hole and sees mulder outside.)(mulder is outside a motorhome. the windows on the door and the rear of motorhome are all shuttered. he walks to the front and looks through the passenger's door window. he sees that the keys in the ignition are on a keychain with a large plastic tooth attached and realizes that it belongs to schnauz.) mulder! i'm in here! (mulder tries to break into the door of the motorhome by throwing himself against the door. inside, schnauz moves toward scully with the leucotome. scully grabs schnauz's arm with her free hand.) mulder! help! mulder! (outside, mulder grabs a nearby piece of pipe.) addendum to case report. after his death, a diary was found among gerald schnauz's belongings, written in the second person and apparently intended as an open letter to his father. it includes the names of his victims, the women he desired to save. my name is contained in the last entry. i have no further explanation for the existence of the photographs, nor am i confident one is forthcoming. my captivity forced me to understand and even empathize with gerry schnauz. my survival depended on it. i see now the value of such insight. for truly to pursue monsters, we must understand them.  we must venture into their minds. only in doing so, do we risk letting them venture into ours?separator uh, i could use a little more elbow room.  oh, my god... mulder... it looks as if this child has been afflicted by every rare birth defect known to science. i mean, i, i'm going to have to order dna typing from the crime lab, but... there appears to be abnormalities associated with nev-laxova syndrome, meckel-gruber syndrome, estrophy of the cloaca, i mean, i don't even know where to begin. 
 well, i don't know about that. there's evidence of occlusion due to dirt in the nose and mouth... indicating the dirt has been inhaled. imagine all a woman's hopes and dreams for her child and then nature turns so cruel. what must a mother go through?  i, i guess i was just projecting on myself.  no.  what about your family?  but from what i know from about genetic defects, mulder, it's unlikely that child is a result of a single polygenic mating.  those defects, mulder, are autosomal dominant disorders, and from the degree, i'd say, mutations that go back many generations.  but he also implied that they practice inbreeding. now we all have a natural instinct to propagate...  there are theories which pose that our bodies are, are simply vehicles for genes needing to replicate.  but if the instinct and the need is strong enough, they will answer it any way that they can. now a woman gave birth to that child, mulder, and my guess is, against her will.  what about missing persons reports? 
 sheriff... ...do you recall over the last eight to ten months any vehicles you found and considered to be abandoned, but which might actually belong to kidnap victims?we saw a white cadillac in the peacocks' front yard. well, uh, we'll check on those in the morning. you get some sleep, sheriff. 
 you still planning on making a home here?  well, just as long as a brutal infanticide doesn't weigh into your decision. good night, mulder. 
 mulder, this lock is broken.  damn it. the lab screwed up the dna test on the infant. multiple maldistribution, chromosomal breakage, maldivision of the centromere... yeah, but this shows far too many gene imbalances. it would have to be a lab error. this child's cells would have had to divide triple-fold in cell metaphase. mulder... only one sperm in thousands from a single individual can penetrate an ovum membrane, let alone from three separate males.  no. for that to be even remotely possible, there'd, there'd have to be a weakening of the ovum, and that would have to come from a female member of the peacock family, and there aren't any left.  mulder, that would take a whole day. i think they, they may have a woman captive up there who may have sustained life-threatening injuries while giving birth. who knows what those men have done to her. i think that we should go up there right now.  hang on a second, mulder. why... why would the peacocks kill sheriff taylor? he didn't even question them about the buried child.  but how would they know? he, he issued the warrants by phone. unless they overheard us talking about it, how would they know?  exactly. how could they know? 
 yup, they're up there.  are these vests absolutely necessary, deputy?  i don't see anybody inside.  pastor, no! (an ax swings out, decapitating pastor. george walks over to the body. scully, horrified, takes out her gun and walks over to mulder.)pastor's dead. the brothers moved in like a pack of animals. even though we have the firearms, i imagine the place is rigged with traps.  i don't know... "nah-ram-ewe." (she bleats as she talks.)"nah-ram-ewe!" i baby-sat my nephew this weekend. he watches "babe" fifteen times a day.  federal agents! is anybody in here! (armed with flashlights and their guns, they make their way down the hallway.)f.b.i.! is anybody in this house? is there anybody in here?(they reach a door and mulder kicks it open. there are piles of old newspapers, flies swarming. mulder looks down.) let's move the bed.  mulder, she already is home. it's mrs. peacock. she's their mother. (mrs. peacock looks at mulder and hisses. her deformed face makes mulder wide-eyed. she slides back under the bed, sobbing, as mulder and scully stand. mulder looks particularly hurt. outside, the boys struggle with the pigs. mulder starts out of the room.)mulder, where are you going? well, what about her? (he closes the door.) i mean, we, we may not be able to move her, mulder. she doesn't appear to be held against her will. i mean, she appears to be, but i don't believe she is. (mulder looks out the window at the peacock brothers.) we're only assuming. we can't prove anything. (mulder shrugs slightly. the brothers continue to try to regain control of the pigs.)the way i think it goes here is that edmund is the... the brother and father of the other two. mrs. peacock? (she doesn't acknowledge scully.)mrs. peacock? you are in immediate need of medical attention. agent mulder and i are here to help you.(mrs. peacock looks at her.) whatever pain you may be...  what about you? even after the accident?  mrs. peacock, they murdered sheriff taylor and his wife. and deputy pastor.  mulder! (scully shoots george. mulder turns around to see george fly back. sherman continues to hit the door, making mulder turn. george rushes mulder as sherman breaks through, pushing the table out of the way. sherman helps george, trying to get mulder's gun away as scully tries to get a clear shot. she takes it, firing eight times, hammering george. george drops the gun to the floor as he flies back, but quickly stands. scully is out of bullets and incredibly confused. sherman has mulder in a chokehold as george rushes him, but mulder kicks him away. he then picks up a glass on the table and smashes it over sherman's head, forcing him to release the hold. george nails mulder and sherman goes to get a weapon. scully watches, horrified.)i've got the mother!(sherman looks back and chases after scully, swinging his jagged board. george throws a right hand, but mulder ducks under it and jumps on his gun. george goes to pounce on mulder. as scully runs away from sherman, she hears a gunshot and george screaming. as sherman swings the board, she ducks. the board digs into the wall and sherman tries to stop running, but trips over the wire on the hallway. the trap is sprung and sherman groans as the point drives into sherman's back. mulder stands and goes over to scully. they look down at sherman.) mulder, look. (they kneel and see scratch marks on the floor leading from the bedroom.)marks on the floor.(the agents walk back into the bedroom. mulder looks under the bed to see that mrs. peacock is gone. later, outside, scully is on the phone.)okay, thank you.(she hangs up. mulder walks over to her.) i've notified the state police and the highway patrol, they've put out an a.p.b. on the peacocks and they're setting up a roadblock over a thirty-mile radius. in time, we'll catch them. separator theres not much traffic at this hour.  only what ive read in the herald. uh, that four young men have gone missing over the past three months --- all of them african-american.  what happened last night?  how was he killed?  has a cause of death been determined.  im sorry, i thought you said that owen sanders was black.  im not sure i follow.  i assume youre going somewhere with this.  so you dont think these men are victims of a crime at all.  his name was owen sanders. he was reported as the fourth kidnap victim in philadelphia until his body turned up last night looking like this.   i have been requested to determine what leeched the pigment from his body.  the centers for disease control.  well, they believe that the uh, the case has been mislabeled. that this man and the others may have fallen prey to a disease or a pathogen.  there were no external signs of trauma or defense wounds and uh, his wallet was still full of cash.  i dont know. there are conditions like vitiligo which attack melanocytes and prevent the manufacture of melanin in the skin. auto immune disorders which are not yet clearly understood.  well, its very possible that they have already turned up but because of the depigmentation there may have been a problem with identification, so i have reissued descriptions of john does to area morgues and ers.  im sorry?  mulder, not everything is a labyrinth of dark conspiracy, and not everybody is plotting to deceive, inveigle and obfuscate.    yes, theres hair, skin, and fiber behind you on the counter.  what are you doing?   if im correct, its a cortical depressant that works on the higher centers of the brain.   in large enough quantities it might be. larger than anything contained in a single seed.   no, the tox screen was clean.   only if the victim hadnt expired immediately.   no, but .... i think i found something that could explain the depigmentation in the victim. his pituitary gland was necrotized.   the pituitary gland secretes all the regulatory hormones in the body and it controls the production of melanin in the skin cells.   no. i have identified the effect. i am still looking for the cause.   where are you, mulder?  you mean he looked sick?  did you observe anybody else in the area?  excuse me.  he works at a fast food place down the street. he takes this bus every night, and last night he never made it home. they found his knapsack on the bench here. police are out canvassing. i talked to a bus driver who said that he seemed disoriented and non-responsive which seems to me like it might be some kind of pre-symptomatic dementia.  what are you suggesting?  what makes you so sure?  it says here that the cause of death was undetermined.  sir, were not here to arrest anybody.  yes. investigating a possible public health crisis.   it has to be here, mulder. there has to be some evidence of a virus or bacterium.  the motive of any pathogen is to reproduce itself. and my job as a doctor is to find out if and how it is being transmitted.  death is a health crisis. something caused owen sanders pituitary to fail which in turn caused his metabolism to drop resulting in myaxadema coma and finally in death. sometimes you have to start at the end to find the beginning.  i just hope we dont have to find another dead body to discover what that is. 
 hes not here.  mulder, i think i know where he went.  come on, mulder. lets go. weve lost him. 
 oh, my god. 
 with your permission, sir, id like to examine him some more. id like to run a suppression test, to do a tsh screen, take a history.  im working on that.  not yet. but that doesnt mean he isnt a carrier or even the index case.  nobody has lied to you, sir.  we would like to do some more tests on him. we have to be certain that his health hasnt been endangered and that he isnt endangering others.  as a translator. wed like to be able to ask him some questions.  there are no charges against mr. aboah.  where are you going?  this patient appears to have something in his throat, some kind of aberrant bone growth, or maybe something foreign lodged in his esophagus.  well, thats only part of it. i discovered something even more disturbing when his pet series came back. look right here on the sagittal section, right below the hypothalamus.  theres no mistake. this patient has no pituitary gland.  i cant even begin to explain what were seeing here, sir. i just hope this patient can, can provide us with some of the answers.  what are you talking about?   when did this happen? ..... thank you, lieutenant. i appreciate it.  mulder .....  lets go. that was the philadelphia pd. marcus duffs car turned up abandoned with the keys in the ignition and the hood still hot.  do you know what happened to him?  what about aboah? any indication of where he might be?  hes got to be around here somewhere, mulder. he cant have gotten far.  theyll find him.  how do you know?  interrupted his killing duff?  what need?  theoretically, yes.  considering his pet scan results i dont even know how he managed to stay alive.  what are you talking about?  what, by stealing other peoples hormones?  well, however hes managed to survive wha --- i mean what.... what makes you think hes not an isolated case?  so youre basing this theory on a folktale?  well, even if youre right, i mean especially if youre right, why would he leave his own country to come here?  what are you doing?  why are we here, mulder?   mulder? 
 mulder? mulder?  mulder?  mulder?  mulder! mulder, are you okay? 
 its okay, mulder. im here, okay? 
 sorry, mulder.  yes, this is dana scully with the fbi requesting immediate ems and police assistance. im in liberty plaza ....... my badge number? jtt0331613. 
  no. liberty plaza. theres a demolition site on the north side of the street. 
  special agent dana scully, field journal entry number 74. despite acute trauma to his pituitary gland, marcus duff was discharged early this morning from mt. zion medical center. he is expected to testify before a grand jury in the capital case against samuel aboah who is being charged with five counts of murder.  it remains uncertain, however, whether aboah will live long enough to stand trial. his response to hormone therapy has been poor, his deterioration progressive. my conviction remains intact that that the mechanism by which aboah killed and in turn survived, can only be explained by medical science, and that science will eventually discover his place in the broader context of evolution. but what science may never be able to explain is our ineffable fear of the alien among us; a fear which often drives us not to search for understanding, but to deceive, inveigle, and obfuscate. to obscure the truth not only from others, but from ourselves.separator he's somewhere here on the compound. ephesian? we have to find him.  where haven't we covered?  mulder. mulder! tear it apart.mulder? mulder, where are you going?intelligence reported no hiding places beyond the yard.did you see someone?
 how did you know that? 
 we believe that ephesian is a paranoid charismatic sociopath. he is obsessed with the book of revelation and will use his knowledge of biblical text to get anything that he wants from his followers.  vernon, if sidney was unfaithful, did he receive a "crown of life?"  skinner said no one else has come up with anything. as you can see, they've started to release members of the temple. the compound remains under federal control, though.well, time is flying, we've got six wives to question. my estimate is twelve more hours of fire and brimstone and not a second about sidney.
 melissa, do you understand your right to have an attorney present in this questioning?  what about your family, where do they live?  how long have you lived there?  how long have you been married to ephesian?  that's quite a faith you have in vernon there, melissa. i'd have a tough time if my husband had so many children with other women. do you have a child by vernon?
 have you ever witnessed any child abuse at the temple, melissa? 
 melissa?  you're claiming sidney is her past life just because she mentioned joe mccarthy?  melissa riedal is not cooperating.  they're extremely rare. in fact, many in the psychiatric community do not believe that dissociative identity disorder exists. i believe the disorder exists, but in this case, under these circumstances, i would have to know more.  yes, but we are responsible for melissa riedal.  you didn't even have the courage to tell skinner what you really believe... that melissa riedal is being invaded by her past-life incarnations.  i don't believe that you feel responsible for those fifty lives... or melissa riedal. you are only responsible to yourself, mulder. 
 we know that events occurred here that, uh, that may be painful. you may not want to talk about them. they may be so painful, you may be afraid to remember. but to help the others... to help the children and to help yourself... we're here with you to listen. to melissa, to "sidney," to whoever may need to talk. melissa? melissa.
 what should i call you?  lily... were any of your friends hurt in this room? what? melissa, lily... it's okay to tell me. 
 what's wrong? 
 that's why they weren't on the a.t.f. reports.  who are you calling?  because hypnosis is used in the treatment of dissociative identities to bring forth a patient's various personalities?  no, it's about regressing her to a past life. don't do this to her, mulder. this poor woman's mind, her life, is in shreds. just being married to ephesian indicates that, that she is susceptible to suggestion.
 and why is it that vernon ephesian is, reported by you, a paranoid sociopath because he believes that he lived in greece a hundred years ago, and you're not, even though you believe you died in that field? 
 maybe there's a map of the battlefield down in the records.  mulder... 
 mulder, this is a product of her illness. she couldn't answer the question of the battlefield. she gave us no specific names, no information to prove her validity. there is nothing we can do to prove that this is the truth.  mulder, ephesian's arraignment is in two hours. there is no time to be doing this.  mulder, it's scully. do you see any bunkers in the field?  ephesian's being taken down to his arraignment. he and melissa are going to be released soon.  even if i knew for certain, i wouldn't change a day. well, maybe that flukeman thing. i could've lived without that just fine.
 i've reported to investigators on the site about the possible existence of other bunkers. it's not the property of the seven stars, so the b.a.t.f. is continuing to search. 
 revelations tells of christian faith defeating that army.  ephesian knew that he couldn't defeat us.  mulder, no! you're dead! 
separator doctor lloyd, are you currently taking any kind of medication?  would you mind allowing me to check the dosage, and which ones?  doctor lloyd, you say that youve taken sleeping pills. how much sleep did you get the night before? doctor lloyd: : i, uh...i cant recall. the sleeping pill he was taking was something called somanil.  its popular because it works directly on the central nervous system and it isnt stored in body tissue past its intended use. but its also very controversial for its addictivness and its effect on long term behavior.   well, he started taking the drug five years ago, and he went through ooh, he took a lot of it. 19 one hundred tablet refills.   yeah. 
 you know, thats more than a pill a day.  an addiction which very well could have altered his ability to do his job.  judging from his schedule the day of the accident, hundreds, and probably thousands.  youre missing my point here, mulder. this this place is a veritable factory. cosmetic surgery is the boom industry of the medical world. and asu wards like this are a gold mine.  and a brand new, state of the art facility like this can support an entire hospital.  what?  well, they look like they were made by, uh, the coasters from an or table or some kind of equipment.   mulder, if you want to connect the dots here, you should look at the facts.  latrogenic deaths or or deaths due to doctor error are upwards of 80,000 a year. dr. lloyd was pushing his limits. he was an accident waiting to happen.  maybe they were all possessed.  uh, were with the fbi. im agent scully, and this is agent mulder. were investigating a patients death here.   youre rebecca waite. you were the attending nurse at the time. am i correct?  could you explain to me what happened to dr. lloyd. how - how a mistake like this could happen?  did you observe dr. lloyd at all before the accident?   uh, dr. shannon, can we have a word with you, please?  yeah, theres magic going on here, mulder, only its being done with silicone, collagen, and a well placed scalpel. 
 you wanted to show me something?  stop it a second.  my god, mulder. he basically stabbed the man to death in his sleep.  well, presuming that has anything to do with this, who would have put them there?  well, then it doesnt even make sense.  but theres no other evidence of anything like witchcraft taking place here.  the sleeping pills?  "an anti-spasmodic whose active ingredients include belladonna alkaloids "  mulder, do you know how many pharmaceuticals listed in the pdr contain belladonna?  well, if its that simple, why dont you put out an apb for someone riding a broom and wearing a tall black hat?  you dont remember anything, dr. ilaqua? how you got in the room, or what compelled you to do such a thing?  do you realize what youve done now?   may i?  ill be right back.  
 no, just dr. ilaqua, why?  what are they? bruises?  well, i found something, too.   you think its just a coincidence? 
 sorry to barge in, but this is a matter of some urgency.  finally.  do you have any other reasons to suspect her?  on the suspicion of being a witch? (mulder smiles and opens screen door. he points to a pentagram drawn near top of door. scully looks resigned to the fact that mulder *will* get into this house. they draw their guns and flashlights, nod at each other, and mulder kicks in the door. they enter. scully finds altar with candles burning.) what could she have been doing in here?  mulder, dont ...  get the paramedics over here! get the paramedic over here now! 
 shes swallowed straight pins and is bleeding internally. youve got to get her into surgery immediately.   im going with her to the er. 
 (voice) mulder, its me.  i do? (she crosses to look at herself in the mirror and sighs) i was just at the hospital. our suspect, rebecca waite was just pronounced 20 minutes ago.  massive blood loss due to esophageal hemorrhaging caused by the expulsion of hundreds of straight pins.  well ... in med school i saw some weird stuff. (mulder crosses over to witchcraft book.) uh, theres a - a psychiatric disorder called pica which is characterized by the craving for non-food objects like clay, rocks, glue, but if she swallowed ...  (sitting beside mulder on bed) allotriophagy?  mulder, i - i wont refute that this woman may have been practicing the occult, but ... what comes out must first go in.  (indicating book) whered you get this from?  whats the significance of the 30th?  so you think she was choosing her victims based on their birthdays.  which made her attack dr. franklyn.   yes. thank you.  dr. franklyns already left, but his office confirms that one of his patients has a birth date which corresponds with one of the sabbaths.  this morning shes already in pre-op, and one of the other doctors is filling in. 
 it means that while doctors in other fields have seen their earnings fall because of managed health care, youve all managed to become wealthy.  so you covered it up.  why, mulder? what are you thinking? mulder, im still not sure where youre going with this.  but cox was a doctor. nothing about his death matches up except its coincidence.  where else do you think he would be?  hes not answering his pages.  answering machine. what are you thinking, mulder? that dr. cox murdered these patients ten years ago then became dr. franklyn?  this kind of transformation is medically impossible.   blood sacrifice?  so this man committed these murders in order to make himself beautiful?  look, hes inscribed all the names of the patients who were killed.  
 mulder, in here.  where are you going?   you have to stop this procedure immediately.  im special agent dana scully. im an fbi agent.   listen to me! im a doctor.  im a federal agent.  thats exactly what im trying to prevent. well, they saved her life. they just pulled a whole whack of surgical instruments out of-of her intestinal tract. god only knows how they got there.   october 31. halloween. separatorseparator mulder... what's going on?
 you called for a forensic excavation at five a.m. on a sunday? what are you looking for?  mulder, what are you doing out here?  you're saying that you're out here because of something you saw in a dream? 
 so, tell me about this dream.  mulder, if you destroy evidence, we may never find out what happened here.  you're saying you got all these details from your dream?  whose m.o.?  did you?  but it was your profile that caught him. what about the, uh, the trophies he took, the cloth hearts? well, if nothing else... i think i can at least help explain your dream. i don't think you ever stopped thinking about this case. i believe that you may have solved it in your sleep. you said it yourself once. you said that a... a dream is an answer to a question we haven't learned how to ask. you did good work, mulder. let's identify this girl so we can put her to rest. i believe her name is addie sparks. she went missing from her home in king of prussia, pennsylvania, in june of 1975. i contacted the center for missing and exploited children, ran a search through the database. 
 the match is right, mulder. the, the, the height is right, the description of the sleeper is right.  mulder, we're going to have to verify this. are you up for that? 
 frank sparks?  yes, i'm agent scully, this is agent mulder. we're with the federal bureau of investigation. may we speak with you?  where is your wife, sir?  no, sir, not full-time.  what are you saying that means?  maybe... you're saying the hearts might still be in his car?  don't you think the car might have been searched at least once already?  thank you.  maybe it's underneath. 
 addie sparks. fifteen... sixteen.
 we also found your cloth hearts. all sixteen of them.  you're in here for life, you've got nothing to lose.  i did. 
 in your dream, mulder. it was a dream. your mind made it up.  is it a state secret you lived in martha's vineyard?  through the prison library. the inmates have access to computers and the internet. i checked. roche logged on just yesterday. 
 the server records don't show, but on the net, mulder, he can find out practically anything about you. look, he is playing with you, mulder. he is committing emotional blackmail and you are letting him. you walked into that room with your heart on your sleeve. he saw vulnerability, and he took advantage of it. you had a dream... a nightmare... and you, and you had it because of all the emotions that this case is stirring up for you. but... it was nothing but a dream.  what are you saying you believe now?  it is looking possible, sir. john lee roche apparently spent most of 1973 in boston. he did take one sales trip up to martha's vineyard in october of that year. the timing is right.  sir, the fact remains that we still have two more victims that we need to find and identify, and no one has more insight into roche than agent mulder and this is still agent mulder's case. 
 prove it. 
 mulder... let's get a team out here. let somebody else do this.  mulder?  you're right, mulder, it's not a match. it's not her. tell us the name of that girl.  what year?  drop the mind games.  oh, god... you're going to see the inside of your cell instead. you're going to rot there.are you okay? mulder, the last thing you should do is give this man his way on this. if you do, he could string us along forever. i know you appreciate that. there has to be another way to come to the truth.
 agent mulder convinced the judge that it was an emergency situation.  i had left agent mulder for the day. i suggested that he get some sleep. sir, i have a clear idea of where he might have gone and i am sure that i can catch up with him.  martha's vineyard. and i would hope that you'd appreciate the uniqueness of this situation and it's effect on agent mulder.  mulder?  he also took your badge and your phone.  where?  what child? 
 mulder, what child? mulder: this is fox mulder of the f.b.i. i'd like a passenger manifest for flight sixteen-fifty from washington national to boston, 8:50 p.m. last night. my badge number is j-t-t...an agent mulder just called ten minutes ago. they gave him the same information.
 you don't think he took samantha?  well, where do you think he'd take this girl? would he follow his m.o. and drive her out of state?  well, how much of a creature of habit is he? do you think he'd want to take her someplace familiar?  well, he lived in boston in the early '70s, right? 
 roche's old address in the area. revere. nine-eight-o-nine alice road, apartment number six...  i don't think he brought her here. 
 come here. 
 i got back some lab results. the dye analysis determined that the fabric of the last heart was manufactured between 1969 and 1974... but beyond that, there's nothing more they can tell us. mulder, it's not samantha... and whoever that little girl really is, we'll find her.  i don't know... but i do know you. why don't you go on home and get some sleep?
separator i, dana katherine scully, swear to tell the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help me god.  i would like to read from a prepared statement.  i left behind a career in medicine to become an fbi agent four years ago because i believed in this country. because i wanted to uphold its laws, to punish the guilty and to protect the innocent. i still believe in this country. but i believe that there are powerful men in the government who do not. 
 . . . men who have no respect for the law and who flout it with impunity.  with all due respect, mr. chairman, i would like to finish.  then why are we here, sir?  i respectfully decline to answer that question, sir.  because i believe answering that question could endanger agent mulder's life.  then if i could please finish my statement. . . that it is no longer possible to carry out my duties as an fbi agent.  no, sir. what i am saying is that there is a culture of lawlessness that has prevented me from doing my job. that the real target of this committee's investigation should be the men who are beyond prosecution and punishment. the men whose policies are behind the crimes that you are investigating.  what makes you so sure?  what makes you so sure that it's here -- that it's tonight?  well, so who do you think's leaking them, and why are they leaking them to you?  swat guy: : we got traffic.
 driver's dead.  mulder!  how'd you get involved with these men?  what do you want, krycek?  you want this man brought to justice?  what flight is he on? 
 he still has to go through customs.  sir, federal agent. don't be alarmed; i just need to speak with you. 
 stop! stop right there! sir!  mulder! 
 mulder, look. 
 is this some kind of joke?  not its origin, no.  are you saying. . .  does this rock contain fossilized remains, dr. sacks?  got something?  toxic?  mulder, that rock contains fossils of what is believed to be alien bacteria, and even that is under intense debate.  what he's given us, mulder, is a rock. alex krycek is a liar, and a murderer.  what i'm worried about is you, mulder and how far you'll go. and how far i can follow you. 
 what are you doing?  it's dr. sacks. he's. . . i don't know, mulder. i've never seen this before. i don't know if he's dead or alive.  contamination is impossible unless there's a tear or a loss of pressurization. so whatever happened to him, it's unlikely it penetrated the suit.  look, there's a film over everything.  oh my god! this man's alive!  no, i think he is. i think he's in some kind of coma state or some kind of somatic rigor.  i don't know, i don't know, but we have to get him out of here. senator sorenson wants to see us?  yes, but a summons for what??  it's hard to say.  agent mulder is endeavoring to get his own answers, sir.  is that a rhetorical question, sir?  we intend to file a complete report on this matter, sir, once we fully understand what it is that we're investigating.  agent mulder is in the field, sir, seeking answers to the questions you are asking. separator we havent been able to give him anything but fluids for over forty-eight hours.  well, if he has been infected by some kind of organism we risk contamination...are you seeing anything?  what is it?  it looks like a nest....some type of black vermiform organism attached to the pineal gland. sir...what are you...  im sorry sir, my cell phone was turned off.  yes sir. sir, if i might explain...the contents of that pouch...it contained some sort of a biohazardous organism that is, luckily, being contained in a contamination laboratory at nasa goddard, where ive been all day trying to determine its exact nature.  no sir, i dont.  who was it?  yes sir, i am...shes a well-know physician....and a...a virologist whos looked in on presidents. shes also an authority on...on variola viruses.  smallpox....shes been a vocal proponent of eliminating the last remaining stores of the smallpox virus....destroying the only remaining vials in facilities here in atlanta and the former soviet union.  killed?  i dana katherine scully swear to tell the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help me so help me god.  i would like to read from a prepared statement.  i left behind a career in medicine to become an fbi agent four years ago because i believed in this country.  because i wanted to uphold its laws, to punish the guilty and to protect the innocent. i still believe in this country, but i believe that there are powerful men in this government who do not .  ...men who have no respect for the law, and who flout it with impunity.   i have come to the conclusion....  ...that it is no longer possible...  with all due respect mr. chairman, i would like to finish.  then why are we here, sir?  i respectfully refuse to answer that question, sir, because...  because i believe that answering that question could endanger agent mulders life.  then if i may please finish my statement......that it is no longer possible for me to carry out my duties as an fbi agent.  no, sir. what i am saying, is that there is a culture of lawlessness that has prevented me from doing my job- that the real target of this committees investigation should be the men who are beyond prosecution and punishment....the men whose secret policies are behind the crimes that you are investigating.  i cant answer that question, sir.  id be happy to answer you questions about the man carrying the diplomatic pouch... senator sorenson: agent scully. scully: ...about his murder, and my opinion about its connection to the death of dr. bonita charne-sayre of the world health organization... or about the biotoxin being transported within that pouch.  yes, sir. if i may id like to finish making my point.  that the death of doctor charne-sayre, given her field of expertise, not only suggests that she knew something about the toxin, but also its origins, and that knowledge may be directly linked to the man in assistant director skinners apartment building   yes, sir...uh...assistant director skinner has just informed me that there has been an accident directly related...  a doctor, infected with the toxin, has died under suspicious circumstances involving a theft of evidence...of the contents of the diplomatic pouch...   mulder....  when did you get back here?  mulder, ive made several connections about this toxin- about what it might be...  sir? i need your permission to book two airfares to boca raton, florida. it shouldnt take more than twelve...fifteen hours...but in the even that it does, i need you to stall the committee tomorrow, for the purpose of...  dr. bonita charne-sayre is a board member and a chief physician for a chain if elder-care convalescent hospitals across the country....guess what one of her patients died of in boca raton?  agents mulder and scully. we need your permission to come onto the premises and speak with you or any of your patients.  when was the last time these patients were checked.   this man is dead.  who gave these patients their meds tonight?  okay, i need you to call 911. tell them you have an emergency quarantine of a biohazardous material. i need you to show us all of the entrances of the hospital. weve got to seal this building immediately. . i do not understand what it is you hope to learn here.  but according to you that man is in russia...possibly even dead.  this man krycek, or arntzen as you call him...how did he come into contact with you?...off the record.  what did he say?  you mean...used as bio-warfare?  lets go mulder.  mulder!  what are you doing, mulder?  but whats in canada?  back in the ground. (goes to gate and climbs fence. the chopper takes off behind her. peskow sees her and goes to hide. the sound of the closing door alerts scully. cut to mulder, taking grate off pipe (goes to door marked valve room. she cannot open the door.) cut to mulder, reaching for the box (glances at the oil blaze (caused by the explosion) and hurries off to find mulder. she finds him lying on the ground near the fire.) mulder! (she helps him to his feet and leads him away). yes...im ready here, sir.  yes, senator...evidence linking a number of deaths... a great number...to a biotoxin that was transported to us soil by a courier who was also killed.  yes. he has not been ided.  yes, sir. alex krycek...who is missing and, possibly , deceased.  no sir.   documents and interviews in support of a wide-ranging conspiracy to control a lethal bio-toxin that is, in fact, extra-terrestrial in origin.  no, sir. not at all. separator mulder, this happened how long ago?  only the smell. mulder, you brought me out here on the pretense of investigating an unexplained death. can you tell me why were standing out here in the middle of a field looking at a dead goat?  a transient.  purple rain?  mulder, this "transient," as you call it, this bright flash in the sky - i assume you think it has some connection to -  and the victim, maria dorantes, did she die in a similar fashion?  you assume? nobodys examined the body?  no la migra, no la migra.   la fbi, no la migra.   el chupacabra?  who would that be, sir?   thank you, mr. buente. youve been very helpful. 
  maria ... maria ... i just met a girl named maria.  it makes perfect sense, mulder. admit it. you fell for it. your "fortean event" turned out to be nothing more than the oldest story in the world. two men. one woman. trouble.  mulder, what weve walked into here is a mexican soap opera, and one for the local cops.  okay, i care, but what are we supposed to do about it?  while you do what?  excuse me? excuse me?  im agent dana scully with the fbi.  im investigating the death of a migrant worker.  im sorry?  uh, a woman named maria dorantes. i need to determine a cause of death in order to close out an investigation.  well, im a medical doctor. if you show me the body i can examine it myself.   i dont think hes going anywhere. 
 did he tell you what happened?  he didnt kill her, mulder. i examined the body of maria dorantes, and i believe that her cause of death was natural, albeit strange. she seems to have succumb to a massive fungal infection.  aspergillis, according to the coroner. its a mold that's found in dead leaves, compost, even household dust.  not normally. its actually very common and quite harmless.  well, aspergillis can be lethal to people with immunodeficiencies like aids patients and ah, transplant recipients. and i found high levels of methyl bromide in her blood workup. its a - a pesticide thats used for soil sterilization. highly toxic. now i think that her body was so ravaged by pesticides that a normally benign fungus may have compromised her whole immune system.  mulder, i know you dont want to hear this, but i think the aliens in this story are not the villains. theyre the victims. 
 look at that. 
 mulder. 
 it appears this man died of systemic shock. brought on by what appears to be another massive fungal infection  no. it looks dissimilar. i dont know what this is. but its speed and its aggressiveness are frightening. the infections covered 90 percent of his body, mulder, through both layers of skin.  no one knows where he ran? 
 eladio buente didnt kill this man. he didnt kill anybody.  mulder, this is the work of a pathogen of - of some kind of a highly virulent strain.  mulder, whatever you hope to learn by finding this man we have to first make a definitive classification of the fungi taken from the victims. i need to isolate it and i need to get a sample of it to a mycologist as quickly as possible.  athletes foot?  but our body has natural defenses against this kind of invasion. i mean, even in the absence of an immunoresponse a fungi like this one or like the aspergillis sample that i gave you, dont they need the right environment to multiply?  whats this?  so its not the fungi, but the enzyme that kills.  oh, my god.  (on phone) mulder, its me.  (on phone) im at the state university bio department. mulder, listen to me. i think youre right. i think eladio buente is responsible for those two deaths.  (on phone) by spreading an enzyme produced by what appears to be a new strain of conidial fungi.  (on phone) my guess is by touch.  (on phone) he could be just a carrier, then a kind of typhoid mary.  (voice) yes. mulder, its extremely important that you not come into direct contact with this fungus. you must not inhale it, you must not touch it ... (lozano opens port-a-potty, mulder stops him.) (on phone) a bollide?  (on phone) mulder, i think this is beside the point, right now.  (on phone) mulder, let me work on the fungus, okay? what you need to do is to find the man who might be spreading it.  more goats. 
 eladio buente?  drop your weapon!  drop it!  put it down! now!  (seeing something) mulder.  gone where?  you gave him your money?  you know, what she said about eladio buente, about his face ...  mulder, he could be anywhere right now. if - if he were to enter a metropolitan area with what hes carrying ...  if hes going to mexico ...  then where is he going?  i dont understand.  yes, sir.  we cant exactly explain it ourselves, sir.   the haz-mat team were able to contain the fungal infection within the migrant camp. no other casualties were reported. and we found no other traces of the accelerating enzyme.  they were nowhere to be found. lozanos revolver turned up ten miles away near the car of a man known locally as el barbera.  its not a fungus, sir. actually, its an enzyme to which the brothers had an abnormal tolerance, and which came from what i believe to be an anti-enzyme gene.  well, sir, they, um...they have a way of being almost invisible.separator his name was isaac luria. he lived in the williamsburg section of brooklyn, home to a sect of hasidic jews who have lived there since the late 19th century.  and now isaac luria. he was murdered two days ago in the market that he owned. severely beaten and shot five times at point blank range. the police ruled out robbery because the only thing that was missing was a video tape from the surveillance camera. the police found it early this morning. 
 in the vcr of a 16 year old named tony oliver. that's him on the upper right. 
 no, because he's dead. apparently he was watching this tape when he was strangled to death.  yeah. but with a new twist. the brooklyn homicide detectives contacted the fbi civil rights branch with an interesting set of fingerprints that they pulled off of the boy's body.  they belonged to isaac luria.  some people might assume that. it's probably what someone would like us to think.  i think this is a crime of hatred like the crime that spawned it. a hatred that goes back 4000 years but masquerading as something else here. a callow attempt at murderous retribution disguised as spectral justice.  and not a very good one.  somehow the killer got a hold of isaac luria's fingerprints and we have been asked to prove how. excuse me, sir. we're with the fbi. we'd like to speak with arial luria. 
 is she home?  we would like your permission to reopen isaac's grave.  we're looking for evidence in the murder of this young man. his name is tony oliver. 
 he's one of three suspects in the murder of your husband. we believe it was an act of retaliation and that the other two suspects are targets.  because this is a homicide investigation, sir, and you are required by law to assist us.  sir, i'm afraid that even without your consent, we can get a court order to exhume isaac's grave.  i'm afraid he knows who killed tony oliver, mulder, and he doesn't want us disturbing isaac luria's grave because he knows what we'll find.  justice or revenge?  yes, but the right to free expression doesn't extend to murder.  no, not directly, but these young men are and we have reason to believe that you know them.  their names are derrick banks and clinton maguire.  we work for the fbi, sir.  you take a long look at these photos. it may be your last chance to save their lives. 
 one of their accomplices, a man named tony oliver, was found murdered this morning.  you haven't heard the rumors?  that luria is back from the dead? that he's risen from his grave? we're just relaying the evidence, sir. you can draw your own conclusions. but i'm sure you wouldn't want to be endangering these young men's lives.  ligature marks on the victim's neck are consistent with the vigilante's mo. forensics come up with anything?  i guess clinton was here with derek banks.  maybe they came to desecrate the corpse as retribution for tony oliver's death.  afraid? 
 the body wasn't embalmed according to custom. maybe it's postmortem lividity or some sort of tattooing. it's hard to tell with this stage of decomposition. 
 is it ever buried with the dead?  there may be a possibility that moisture leaked its way into the coffin, into the binding and pages of the book. if the ground water was contaminated with arsenic or arson gas could have created a combustible mixture. 
 a name?  jacob weiss. there's been another murder. another suspect in your husband's death has been found dead last night.  yesterday he expressed strong feelings towards this latest victim.  and we found evidence placing him at the crime scene. this is escalating into something else arial. something that has to stop.  i'm sorry.  it's beautiful.  but your father survived.  and through all this, he hid the ring?  why?  arial, tell us where your father is.  what if you're wrong? do you see him? 
 i'm sorry. we don't mean any disrespect.  we're with the fbi. we're looking for jacob weiss.  mulder... 
 don't move! federal agent! 
 you okay, mulder? 
 put your hands in the air where i can see them. turn around slowly. 
 mr. weiss, we're placing you under arrest. 
 come on. let's go. 
 we've arrested him, arial, under suspicion of murder.  i think that's the direction it's going. agent mulder is in with him now.  arial, i think you'd better get him an attorney, he's refusing legal representation.  okay. you ask detective barley down the hall. he'll give you a place to wait while your father is been processed. 
 arial?  i'm sorry. 
 you want to see the background check i ran? he immigrated to israel after world war ii where he joined the irgun, jewish military underground. he was arrested in 1959 by the british for a bombing that killed 7 civilians. he's a terrorist, mulder. a killer.  what do you mean? he gave a confession, i just stood here and listened to him.  well, who? his daughter?  who do you think it was? 
 where are you going?  mulder, it's me. there's been another homicide.  herb bjunes. i'm on my way to the print shop right now.  well, he wasn't toiling in obscurity. this manifest lists hundreds of names, including our three murder victims.  yeah, i'll call the precinct and have him released. 
 oh, my god. it's isaac luria. he's still alive.  no. that won't be necessary.  well, the coroner matched luria's dental records. 
 it was definitely his corpse in the grave. this video tape... it must have been altered some how. planted by whoever is staging this hoax.  but if luria is dead, mulder...  well, who do you think it is? some kind of a ghost?  a golem?  mud!  mulder, what are you talking about? and... for what purpose? exacting revenge?  it's not locked. 
 arial?  how do you know? 
 his pulse is thready.  if we get him to a hospital.  where are you going? separator why dont i have a desk?  (wistfully) back there.  so what is it you want me to keep an eye on?  and these reports are for sale?  mmmhmm. have you confirmed the identity of these individuals?  im not going.  your contact, while interesting in the context of science fiction, was, at least in my memory, recounting a poorly veiled synopsis of an episode of rocky and bullwinkle.  rocky and bullwinkle are looking for an upsidasium mine. boris badenov alters the road signs which causes them to walk onto a secret military base, where they are picked up by a car with no windows and no door locks, and there are silent explosions from a compound called "hushaboom."  "refusing an assignment?" it makes it sound like youre my superior.  and its become mine.  this isnt about you. or maybe it is, indirectly. i dont know. i feel like ive lost sight of myself, mulder. its hard to see, let alone find in the darkness of covert locations. i mean, i wish i could say that we were going in circles, but were not. were going in an endless line - - two steps forwards and three steps back. while my own life is...standing still.  where will you be?  wow.   the, uh, the color ... the red on the lips. its extraordinary. 
 mm-hmm. thank you. 
 what, you didnt get the tattoo you deserve?  never say never. yeah, sometimes i wish i were that impulsive.  im in town visiting my aunt in the neighborhood. how bout you.  so it wasnt so much "impulsive" as it was "hammered?"  no.  id like that. but um.... im ... um leaving tonight.  hello?  mulder. whats wrong? he is in memphis, tennessee how did you know where i was?  ive handed it over to the philadelphia bureau.  mulder, there is no xfile. your contact is connected to the vorofskoi mir, extortion, credit fraud, cons, he is nothing but a swindler.  what do you mean, how do i know? you assigned me the background check. i did as told, as always.  what, you dont think im capable?  its not just in this case, mulder.  it is over. done. pudovkin is out of our hands. look mulder, i have to go.  i have everything under control. i will talk to you later.  

 uh, hi. um, ed jerse, please.  its dana. we met today. um, my, uh, my flight was cancelled because of the storm and i was just wondering if i could take you up on dinner.  i could pick you up.  good. well uh, ill see you then. (jerse hangs up.) hi.  im, uh, early. the storms not so bad.  ed, i-i uh, i dont go out very much. i think the last time i went on a date was to see glen garry glen ross and the characters in the movie had a much better time. (sees his sleeve) ed, youre bleeding.  im a doctor. do you want me to take a look at it?  ed.... the, uh... the crummy bar you told me about. take me there. so, what make this place a good place to go when youre feeling down?  yeah, but you cant tell whats going on in somebodys head just by looking at them. i mean, theyre probably thinking that were the ones that are screwed up.   who knows? i mean sometimes, i, uh... ive always gone around in this, uh ... this circle. it usually starts when an authoritative or controlling figure comes into my life. and part of me likes it, needs it, wants the approval. but then at a certain point, along the way, i just, you know ....  okay, umm.... my father was a navy captain. i worshipped - - i worship - - the sea that he sailed on. and when i was 13 or so i went through this .... thing , where i would sneak out of my parents house and smoke my mothers cigarettes. and i did it because i knew that if he found out, he would kill me. and then... along the way, there are other ... fathers.  i want to see it.   i want to see it.  its okay. 
 yeah, um.... it feels weird. i, uh, i cant see it and..... but i feel different. its like, um, i dont know how i feel about that. (jerse lifts her shirt and the bandage and looks at the tattoo) (seeing blood on jerses arm) ed, youre bleeding again. will you let me take a look at it? i am a doctor. (she pulls off his jacket and shirt)  ed, it looks burned.  uh, im sorry. hes not in. i dont know where he is.  no. could i help you with something? im with the bureau. (they look at her suspiciously. scully realizes how she looks, what she is wearing, and goes to get her id) such as? look, i have a background in forensic medicine. i assure you that anything you divulge to me will be held in the strictest confidence.  may i? (copies down substance information)  okay. (they leave. scully closes door. sees jerses note - "dana, went to get coffee and breakfast. didnt want to wake you. xo ed" she logs on to his laptop which must have the new dec alpha 1000 mhz chip and a t3 line coming directly into the house. she accesses the fbi data base. the substance is ergot, which is from a parasite on rye and related grasses. she feels her tattoo. psychotomimetic drug, auditory, psychotic. scully dials the phone.) yeah, fox mulder, please.  ed. sit down. (moves her coat. her badge is on top) some detectives were here. the woman in the apartment downstairs was reported missing. they found some blood in her apartment and i believe circumstantially, it may be yours.  you need to tell that to the detectives. but what im also afraid of - - and this concerns both of us - - is that an ergot alkaloid was found in the blood which is why i think it may have been yours. now ergot is a parasite that lives off of rye and related grasses. svo said that he used rye somehow in his ink. now if this is true, we may be subject to hallucinogenic ergotism. aural, visual hallucinations. dangerous and unlikely behavior. we need to go to the hospital to be tested.  we need to get help. now, im going to go into the other room and im going to come back and we are going to go together. (picks up her coat, her badge falls, but jerse doesnt see it. she picks it up goes into the other room.)  okay, lets go. (doesnt see him at the desk)  this isnt you, ed.  get control of yourself.  take control!  (looking up at him) not everything is about you, mulder. this is my life. separator well, whoever happened to get locked in here last night, i guess.  what about the morgue attendant?  mulder, what are we doing here?  yes. so? i mean, youre not suggesting that a headless body kicked his way out of a latched morgue freezer, are you? are you? because i think its obvious this is some kind of bizarre attempt at a cover-up.  my guess would be body snatching for profit. theres a shortage of - of teaching cadavers at medical schools. an unscrupulous medical supplier might pay top dollar, no questions asked.  theres your perpetrator wearing a stolen uniform. 
 well, maybe he got spooked and was forced to abandon it.  ill show you. 
 all hospitals operate some form of medical waste processing. this unit disposes of surgical remains amputations, excised tumors. theyre ground up and heated with microwaves and the result is a uh, sterile soot thats used as road fill.   well, that depends on how often they dispose of their waste. hopefully, only once every few days.  were in luck.   mulder, i think im going to need your help. your arms are longer. 

 leonard betts.  why did he take the time to dispose of the head?  well, we already know how he died. in an automobile accident. what more is there to know?  while you do what?  lived.  oh, god! (scully is shocked and drops scalpel.) mmm.  its me. um, ive run into kind of a unique situation, here.   uh, so far, not much. i uh, did a pet scan on leonard betts remains actually four times now, and each time the image has come out degraded uh, like its fogged somehow.   well, this is cutting edge technology here, mulder. the technicians say the machine is working perfectly. they also say the that only thing that could account for this kind of image distortion is some form of radiation, but i dont see how or-or where it could be emanating from.   well, i i havent exactly performed an examination yet.   well. because i, uh i experienced an unusual degree of postmortem galvanic response.   it blinked at me. i mean, i - i know exactly what it is. its residual electrical activity stored chemically in- in the dead cells.     no, i am certainly not saying that at all.   what do you mean?   leonard betts?   without his head.   mulder, i dont even know how to respond to that.  this procedure is called biopolymerization. its basically a high-tech mummification process. the remains are dipped in the epoxy and once its cured the specimen can be sliced for examination.  (not laughing) at any rate .. we should have some autopsy answers for you soon. (later, a pathologist holds up a thin slice of head and places it under a microscope.) what?  (looking at monitor) oh, my god. his entire brain looks like one giant glioma.  he was riddled with it i mean every - every cell in this sample. every cell, essentially, in his entire head and in his brain was was all cancerous. its completely pervasive.  what are you suggesting?  are you ever asked to defend this as a legitimate scientific process, dr. burks?  (skeptical) "coronal discharge?"  and the theoretical basis of holistic medicine, of acupuncture, but what is its application here?  i dont even know how to explain that photo or even what it proves.  mulder  i dont know where youre going with this?  well, even if that were possible, hes been decapitated.  you think that leonard betts regrew his head?  salamanders ore one thing, but no mammal possesses that kind of regenerative power. i mean, there isnt a creature walking this earth that can regrow its head.  mulder, theyre worms.  well, unheard of or not, someone is going to great lengths to dispose of the evidence.  (on phone) scully yeah okay ..great. thanks. (hangs up) well, apparently, leonard betts did have some secrets -- one of them being that he had an alter ego named albert tanner.  i had danny run the fingerprints. two names came up. the second one was albert tanner. but, unlike leonard betts, albert tanner has a living relative elaine tanner, his mother, who just happens to live here in pittsburgh..  elaine tanner?  im agent scully. this is agent mulder, were with the fbi.  is your son albert tanner? (elaine nods.) wed like to ask you some questions. (they enter.)  mrs. tanner, is this your son?  we know this man as leonard morris betts. are you familiar with that name?  mrs. tanner, are you aware that your son has recently dies?  would it be possible to get a copy of the death certificate or some form of verification?  (quietly) yeah. michelle wilkes was murdered, but, uh, we wouldnt know that if the security guard hadnt witnessed it.  i found a spent autoinjector in the grass. she was given a lethal dose of potassium chloride. its an electrolyte found naturally in the body and a coroner doesnt usually check for it.  well, the security guard did id him as her attacker. he worked as an emt, but his coworkers said his name was truelove.  mulder, it just doesnt work that way.  but, but language, evolution i - its a process of steps, not leaps.  what youre describing is someone so radically evolved that you wouldnt even call him human.  oh, my god. myeloid sarcoma, epithelial carcinoma these are all cancerous tumors. this is surgical waste thats been tagged for disposal. what do you think he wanted with them?  but that he needs it for survival? (mulder nods) so youre saying that this is ?  why do i think that charles darwin is rolling in his grave right now. mulder: ask yourself: why is leonard betts an emt? why does he regularly visit cancer wards? access. betts mom.  elaine tanner? we have a warrant to search the premises. (they enter and begin searching.) mrs. tanner, we know that your son is alive and that youre in contact with him. you need to tell us where we can find him. last night, he murdered a woman in cold blood. by lying to protect him, you are considered an accessory to murder.  what reasons, mrs. tanner?  did you find something?  receipt for a storage locker.  lets check it out. mr. john gilnitz. death from massive blood loss due to what i can only describe as a skillful removal of his left lung.  doing what?  how would he have known that?  well, what ever he was doing he is taking the secret to his grave.  mulder, leonard betts is dead. of that i am absolutely certain. and he is not coming back.  i dont understand.  obviously, someone is lying. maybe the first death was staged.  mulder, these men may be no more than monozygotic twins.  mulder, i dont know what youre getting at here. regeneration of an entire body?. i dont know why im standing here listening to this.  if this man really exists, what make you think hed come back here?  federal agents!  what are you doing here?  stay here. 
 mulder, get the emts up here.  she has an open wound, a surgical cut.  judging by the response time, he might still be here.  
 shes gonna be okay, mulder. shes not out of the woods, but i think we might be able to get where he went out of her.  okay.    mulder, its me. weve got mrs. tanner going into the er, but she took a downturn en route. they defibrillated her to try and get her to try and get her heart back, but theres no chance of getting anything cogent from her. not tonight, anyway. what about on your end?   mulder, get over here right now.   get over here now. 

 ahh!  hes dead?   cancer?    i want to go home. 
separator i feel time like a heartbeat, the seconds pumping in my breast like a reckoning. the luminous mysteries that once seemed so distant and unreal, threatening clarity in the presence of a truth entertained not in youth, but only in it's passage. i feel these words as if their meaning were weight being lifted from me, knowing that you will read them and share my burden, as i have come to trust no other. that you should know my heart, look into it, finding there the memory and experience that belong to you, that are you, is a comfort to me now as i feel the tethers loose and the prospects darken for the continuance of a journey that began not so long ago, and which began again with a faith shakened and strengthened by your convictions, if not for which i might never have been so strong now. as i cross to face you and look at you incomplete, hoping that you will forgive me for not making the rest of the journey with you. i guess that's the question. actually i feel fine.   it's what's called nasopharengeal mass. it's a small growth between the superior conchea and the sinoidal sinus.  a tumor. you're the only one i've called.  no.  the truth is that the type and placement of the tumor make it difficult, to the extreme.  for all times i have said that to you i am as certain of this as you have ever been. i have cancer. it is a mass on the wall between my sinus and cerebrum. if it pushes into my brain statistically there is about zero chance of survival.  yes there are. thank you sir. i don't mean for this to be awkward and i would appreciate if we could keep this matter confidential.  no sir, actually i've asked my doctors to hold onto my medical records until agent mulder and i can exhaust a possible avenue of investigation.  yes sir, but for my own reasons i'd like to like to pursue this through the justice department rather than a personal matter. we're not here for the garage sale. we're looking for betsy higopian. no one's returning our messages.  someone's sending a fax or computer modem.  and downloading data.  apartment 234 is listed under kurt crawford.    stop! federal agent! hold it! put your hands where we can see them. is your name kurt crawford?   what?   i'm fine mulder, quit staring at me i'm fine. ya i'm just washing up.   you took his cuffs off.  then why did he run?  you think he's credible?  well, that will have to be cross-checked.  why not?   how did they die?  all of them?  what makes you think this is a conspiracy, that the government's involved?  about what?  what am i denying?  mulder it doesn't matter.   i don't know what happened to me. i have no clear recollection and i don't think these abductions are even abductions.  no they are not. one woman isn't. there's penny northern.   about what? what it feels like to be dying of cancer? what it's like to know that there's absolutely nothing you can do about it?  i'm..i'm sorry did someone tell you i was coming here to see you?  then how did you know it was me?  i'm sorry i don't mean to be insensitive, but uh, i don't share those memories.  i've come to ask you some questions.  no. who's dr. scanlon?  his name's scanlon?  mulder, it's me.  i'm at the hospital with penny northern. where are you?  mulder that's..  mulder i need you to come up here.  i need you to bring the overnight bag from the trunk of the car and i need you to call my mother and ask her to bring up some things at the hospital.  mulder, whatever you found or whatever you might find i think that we both know that right now the truth is in me, and that's where i need to pursue it, as soon as possible.   ya hi, sorry sleeping.  oh you know. i don, i don't feel sick at all.  i know that the chemotherapy is going to make me sick.  hi mom.  this is uh, this is dr. scanlon.  mom, i'm fine. i'm going to be fine, i'm just here for treatment  thank you.  mom, i know what you're gonna say, but i don't have any experience being sick. i promise you, i feel fine, i feel..  i wanted to get all the answers first.  i have found some clarity, and maybe a way to fight back.  you'll know mom.   i know mom.   where am i?  i feel nauseous.  i had a bad dream. some..someone was doing something bad to me. you were there. i heard your voice.  i'm sorry penny. i ca..can't hear this right now.  i have not written to you in the last 24 hours because the treatment has weakened my spirit as well as my body. mulder, it's difficult to describe to you the fear of facing and enemy which i can neither conquer nor escape. penny northern has taken a downturn. i now look at her with a respect that can only come from one who is about to walk the same dark path. seeing her i can't help but see myself in a month or a year. i pray that i have her courage to face this journey. mulder, i feel you close though i know you are now pursuing your own path. for that i am grateful, more than i could ever express. i need to know you're out there if i am ever to see through this. no, i don't think so penny.  i haven't. i won't 
 i didn't want you to read that. i had decided to throw it out. i decided tonight that um..that i'm not going to let this thing beat me. i came into this hospital able to work, and that's how i'm leaving.  yes.  that will have to be proven, if we find him.  mulder i can't kid myself. people live with cancer. they carry on, and so will i. you know i've got things to finish, to prove to myself, to my family, but for my own reasons.  separator no sign of him in four.  hold on. i think i have him in section four.  positive id. he's heading toward you, three.  mulder, he saw me. he's heading towards the sound booth.  i'm closing on him.  i lost him. you got him, three?  he must be headed your way. you got him, mulder?  was that for the benefit of the general, or have you been able to develop a real strategy?  i interviewed him and convinced him to take a polygraph test.  the nature of his claims would suggest a false positive. the tester admitted that the results are hightly interpretive.  the man who heads the right hand - markham. do you have a warrant for him?  let mulder and i serve it. 
 agents mulder and scully with the fbi.  mr. markham?  the murder of general peter macdougal.  no, but your group is. and private first class gus burkholder.  he's on the mailing list for the right hand.  well, we'd like to go over that list with you, sir.  we already have a copy, if you'll just come with us.  sir, we have a warrant for your arrest if you don't cooperate.  under the new anti-terrorism law, we can and will hold you until we get the information we want. 
 you can make this as easy or as hard as you wish, sir.  would you take a polygraph, mr. markham?  this guy's a one-man threat to national security. i bet he's got more weapons and ammo than most third-world armies.  who's this?  mr. markham, i'm sure that you're aware that in 1973 the defense department determined that there were no more pow's in vietnam.  the government kidnapped a us prisoner of war?  i think i've heard enough. 
 you don't believe him, do you?  a phantom pow left for dead comes back to avenge the injustices?  or maybe not denny markham's war.  or it's just a clever story being proffered as a cover-up for what is actually an elaborately orchestrated conspiracy.  let markham take the polygraph.  he won't. 
  is it true she made a positive id from the photo?  markham may have staged this whole thing, finding somebody vulnerable like her to pass off his lies.  to create a decoy, to divert our attention. it seems to be working.  are you sure?  oh, your eye.  i think you just burst a capillary.   hold a tissue there. 
 an eye exam? for what?  mulder, what she has is a simple sub-conjunctival hemorrhage. it's probably brought on by her emotional state.  what about you? what are you gonna do?  mulder, i'm at a georgetown medical center.  no, but the opthamologist discovered something. something called a transient scotoma.  a floating blind spot. 
 well, any number of diseases can scar the retina. diabetes, glaucoma, macular degeneration. in turn, they, they create a visual field deficit. 
 well, does she have any of those diseases? 
 it doesn't appear so. 
 well, not necessarily. uh, the processes of the brain fill in and the visual cortex compensates conceptually.  i asked the doctor that, and he laughed at me. 
 well, from my cursory exam, nothing about the general can explain your narrative.  not necessarily. he could have turned and been surprised. there's far too little forensic evidence yet to know, mulder.  it's beyond my capabilities here to make that kind of analysis.  sir?  neither of us has a clear explanation, sir.  that is conjecture, sir.  call it off.  general bloch?  we need you to get out of the car, sir, for your own safety.  shooter! get down! 
 he was there! i saw him, i ... it was him, sir! it was the man in the photo! 
 i saw him, sir. it was him.  he's doing all right. he's over there. 
 i'm not really sure.  i told you. i'm not sure, mulder.  how are you so convinced that general bloch was his next target? 
 well, that doesn't prove that he was set up.  you're saying they wanted skinner to fail?  mulder, the government is not about to sacrifice the lives of ranking military officers just to discredit us.  secondary to what?  i think denny markham's story is having its intended effect. i think you're buying into the lie, mulder.  no sign of him in four.  hold on. i think i have him in section four.  positive id. he's heading toward you, three.  mulder, he saw me. he's heading towards the sound booth.  i'm closing on him.  i lost him. you got him, three?  he must be headed your way. you got him, mulder?  mulder ...  mulder, he's gone. he's gone.  he's with skinner.  what's going on here, mulder?  when you're looking directly at him? separator mulder... you have never remembered my birthday in the four years i've known you.  dog years? thank you.  oh, you've got to be kidding me. 
 what, an alien implant?  hmmm... apollo eleven. 
 "commemorating apollo eleven and the mission to the moon, july 1969." 
 oh, promise me this isn't leading to something really embarrassing. 
 excuse me?  excuse me, who are you talking about?  you sure know how to make a girl feel special on her birthday. 
 you ever seen anything like this? 
 they think it hit the ground at over three-hundred miles an hour on an almost vertical descent. meteorological data is being collected and analyzed and so far they are attributing the cause to... a weather phenomenon... to a rapid depressurization caused by a lightning strike or by something called a wind rotor coming off the adirondacks. mulder, even if he was on this flight, looking at this, he'd be in a hundred pieces. i mean, they're going to be lucky if they can i.d. half the bodies they find here.  well, say we do find him. what's that going to prove?  yeah.  eight-oh-one.  uh, seven-fifty-two p.m.  it must be a mistake.  mulder, no one even reported the plane on radar. these guys are just going off of estimates until they can recover the data recorder.  what?  just a few minutes ago, you were absolutely certain he was on this flight.  we need an airlift to a burn unit as soon as possible! this man needs oxygen and a saline i.v.! sir? can you hear me? sir? all of those are from max?  sharon, we believe that there are things that you haven't told us. we need to know everything that you know.  about max. about where he's been, about where he's traveled, about exactly what it was he was carrying on that flight.  no, but we found a passenger with severe burns, severe cellular damage. burns that we wouldn't see unless the victim was exposed to a high level of radiation.  we need to know what that was, sharon. if you're withholding any information, there could be severe consequences. mulder...  paul gidney. it's an alias that max fenig used in his letters when he went underground. he had many aliases, in fact, one of which he used to get a job at the rocky flats environment energy site in colorado where they handle and store uranium two-three-five and weapons grade plutonium. 
 mulder, the burns on that passenger's face were deep tissue radiation burns. i don't know how else he might have gotten them. 
 i don't know. i mean, he, he wrote hundreds, maybe even a thousand letters describing his abduction experiences, but beginning in january, he started making vague references to a theft. now, it seems to me from reading it that he'd started to get the idea that he'd come onto something that was very dangerous.  if he was carrying fissile plutonium, mulder, and it became exposed in the cabin, it very conceivably could have caused the crash.  mulder...  mulder.  mulder, max is returned. i found out a few minutes ago. they found his body a short way from the wreckage earlier today. 
 traveling under the name of paul gidney, seat thirteen-f, with the same burns as his seat mate. 
 did you make a positive i.d. on max fenig? well, they've located the cockpit voice recorder and the flight data recorder. and the i.i.c. is making a statement to the press, saying that there was a complete systems malfunction on the plane.  no, not yet, but they are taking a careful look at the emergency exit door, and while they cannot explain the radiation readings, they are not ready to attribute it as the direct cause.  mulder, why can't you just accept the facts? 
 what would you like them to report? 
 are you accusing these men of covering evidence?  they were already out here?  then what did you do?  we've been traveling a long way. 
 yeah, that must have come after our briefing. 
 excuse me?  we'll take care of it.  i haven't a clue.  you think max's sister was...  about what caused the crash?  from what?  sounds like what you're describing is physically impossible.  scully.  mulder, we've been up for over thirty-six hours, can't it wait...  i'm on my way. 
 this is louis frish, sergeant frish. he's the air-traffic controller you heard on the recording that you played for us the other night. 
 somebody would have spotted it.  then somebody has to get him someplace safe. 
 mulder.  mulder...  in great sacandaga lake?  by myself?  you just let me know what's going on, mulder.  i'm just going to get some things.  i'm going to ask for some kind of protective arrangement. i need to talk to my agent in charge to get a feel for how to go on this, but, uh, i think it's pretty clear you're going to want to talk to the right people.
 for what?  you didn't bring that plane down, louis.  it wasn't your fault.  look, i can't tell you how to feel, louis, but i can tell you that i will do everything i can to make sure you tell your story to somebody who will do the right thing. 
 yeah, um... just tell her you're okay. 
 we're going to be met here by a federal marshall. you're probably going to end up sleeping in somebody's office. you want a drink? you need a drink.
 agent pendrell, how are you doing? 
 i've been, uh, gone.  no, you know what? that's okay, i'm with somebody.  no, you know what? it's okay.  get down! you're going to keep breathing, pendrell. do you hear me?
separator get down, stay down! (scully goes over to pendrell and starts to undo his tie.)you're going to keep breathing. do you hear me?(pendrell breathes shallowly, nodding slightly. scully, panting, pulls open his shirt to reveal a gaping wound in his chest covered in blood. scully looks at pendrell, worried about the seriousness of the wound.) i'll be right back. (she starts towards where garrett was shot, gun aimed, the patrons start to clear a path.)back away! back...(she looks down at the trail of blood leading out the door. she steps outside and looks around. the sound of sirens grows steadily and a number of police cars pull up to see scully holding her badge in the open for them.)i need an e.m.t. in here now!(she starts back into the bar. the driver follows.) excuse me.  we've got paramedics on the way. (pendrell nods.)you're going to the hospital. you're going to be okay. look, we still haven't celebrated my birthday, pendrell. i'm not going to let you off the hook like this.(he laughs, then resumes his shallow breathing. a pair of e.m.t.s start to wheel a gurney through.) this man has a puncture wound to his right lung. he needs to be intubated immediately. (they paramedic leans over pendrell and uncovers his gun, then looks up at scully. she kneels down and takes the gun.)he's an f.b.i. agent... and he's not going to die.(he nods. blood starts to trickle out of scully's nose. they look down at pendrell, who has an oxygen mask put on, and scully wipes her nose nonchalantly. she looks down at the blood on her hand from her new nosebleed. she looks slightly embarrassed and takes out a tissue as she crosses to frish, wiping her nose.)sit down.(frish sits.) when you talked to your girlfriend, what did you say? (frish shakes his head.)did you tell her you were in d.c.?(he shakes his head again.) then there's someone inside. (she looks behind her to see pendrell being wheeled out. skinner walks in, but steps out of the way as they walk out. scully walks over to him.) i don't know.  that's sergeant louis frish, he was the intended target. (skinner looks back at frish, who watches them from his seat.)there was supposed to be a federal marshall here to put the sergeant into protective custody. by whom?  military arrest?  he has testimony that is damaging to the military. his life is in danger. he is not going anywhere.  for what?  sir, the military is responsible for the downing of that plane.  what is their story? (he stares at her for a second, then looks down at the bloody tissue in her hand. she notices and looks away, sighing. he takes her hand and raises it, looking at the tissue.) i'm fine.  mulder.  i came to talk to you.  according to the military, there was no misunderstanding. 
 they had no choice, not in light of all the facts that have come out.  they allowed me to listen to their recordings. if you believe them, the coordinates that sergeant frish gave to the fighter pilot were the exact path that five-four-nine was on. now, they would indicate that sergeant frish and his co-controller could not have seen flight five-four-nine in the airspace until it was too late.
 yes, and that they were the only two aircraft on the radar screen. 
 according to the air force, sergeant frish lied to save himself. when he found out that his, his fellow officer committed suicide, he came to us to blame the military. that's why they pursued him, to bring him to justice.  yes. 
 it was an f-fifteen eagle, according to an air force spokesman.  i don't know what to believe. 
 those look like radiation burns. where did you get that?  you found it?  what was it?  except it can't be proven. 
 because they haven't been able to find any physical evidence whatsoever that flight five-forty-nine was involved in a collision.  mike millar, the i.i.c.... the man running the investigation.  i don't, except he seems to be the one man that truly wants to figure out what downed that plane and who came to me with information he had no reason to share. 
 he found sharon graffia wandering in a daze at the crash site the night we left, after seeing lights over the area.  that's another thing, mulder. she's not max fenig's sister.  she's an unemployed aeronautical engineer who spent time in-and-out of mental institutions. that's where she met max. 
 i don't know. all i know is that this plane seems to be killing people as it sits there on the ground. mulder, agent pendrell is dead.
 shot in an attempt on sergeant frish on washington. he saved his life, mulder, and maybe mine.
 what are these people dying for? is it for the truth or for the lies?  i remember being amazed at what some people will call home.  only max fenig and you would appreciate living like this. i think you were actually kindred spirits in some deep, strange way. men with spartan lives, simple in their creature comforts if only to allow for the complexity of their passions. 
 what exactly are we looking for here, mulder?  what makes you think he was coming to see you? 
 sharon?  how are you feeling? are you up to answering some questions? i know. i'm not quite sure why you lied to us, though, sharon... or what else you might be lying about.
 yes, it does. if you know something, if you know anything about what max was doing, about what he was carrying on that plane... it could matter a lot.  to max. 
 why not?  max had those same blisters. you both were exposed to something, sharon. what was it? 
 from whom? max was trying to find physical evidence to prove that the stories about his abductions were true. you worked as an aeronautical systems engineer. you stole something from your employer, didn't you, sharon? something radioactive. what was it?  there was a third part. what happened to it? 
 mulder, it's me. where are you? 
 how did you find it? 
 mulder... what you're carrying was stolen from a military contractor, cummins aerospace.
 i don't know. 
 mulder... it is extremely important that you do not take it out of its container.
 mulder, did you hear what i said?  no, no, no, mulder, listen to me. do not handle it. whatever it is... it is highly radioactive.
 mulder? 
 i think that what we've got here, mulder, is a case of high-tech industrial espionage. 
 what flight number?  i don't think that'll to be a problem, mulder. 
 scully.  mulder, where are you? 
 what? 
 mulder, did you get on that flight... ...that you said you were getting on? right. 
 yeah? 
 what? mulder? mulder?  max would have wanted it that way. you lost somebody very close to you.  i realized i didn't even know his first name. 
 i actually was thinking about, uh... this gift that you gave me for my birthday. you never got to tell me why you gave it to me or what it means... but i think i know. i think that you appreciate that there are extraordinary men and women and... extraordinary moments when history leaps forward on the backs of these individuals... that what can be imagined can be achieved... that you must dare to dream... but that there's no substitute for perseverance and hard work... and teamwork... because no one gets there alone... and that, while we commemorate the... the greatness of these events and the individuals who achieve them, we cannot forget the sacrifice of those who make these achievements and leaps possible.
separator cause of death was massive head trauma, pronounced on site. but according to the bus driver, it was no accident?  says here in the police report they'd been seen arguing earlier that evening, but jason nichols has refused to tell police about what.  between that and the bus driver's statement, why am i looking at this?  that's his alibi, that some old man came and warned him that his colleague was gonna die?  what was he wearing, a long black robe and carrying a scythe?  he was arrested?  has anybody talked to him?  has anybody talked to the campus security officer?  why not?  of what? you mean, with the autopsy?  hypothermic? mulder, this man's an icicle. did you see this?  his ear. it looks like something's been inserted in it.  and now, his body temperature is 8 degrees.  i think we're gonna need some time ourselves. 
 well, my best guess would be that he's been exposed to some kind of chemical refrigerant, like liquid nitrogen, possibly even ingested it.  i don't know what else to say, mulder, except that what this doesn't do is add any credence whatsoever to the suspect's alibi that the old man was on the scene.  what if he can't?  has nichols said anything?  well, i think we may be filing a second murder charge against him.  i found nichols' right thumbprint on his uniform, and forensics also matched his with the prints they lifted off the interior of the patrol car. i think the old man in this story is gonna be jason nichols serving 25 to life in a federal prison. what did he say?  sounds like jason nichols has an accomplice.  more than that, mulder, it makes sense. science is a high-stakes game. jason nichols is trying to eliminate his competitors and he's succeeding.  he's a cryobiologist. he freezes things for a living. how many people can do that?  i want to show you something.  this is what's called a nuclear magnetic resonance spectra. dr. yonechi had a spot of blood on the heel of his hand - a pin prick, something that might have been caused by a small gauge hypodermic needle. now, i found the same thing on the security officer. this is the analysis.  well, no one at the lab would even hazard a guess, but we think it's some kind of unidentifiable chemical compound.  you'll have to ask jason nichols.  i'm agent scully. may i show you something?  you recognize it?  lisa, you can tell us now or we can subpoena your testimony in court. either way, we'll find out what you know about it.  a catalyst for what?  this compound ... has jason actually tested it yet?  is it possible that he could have synthesized the compound without you knowing about it?  traces of the compound were detected in a man who was found dead last night - frozen solid.  and a, uh, a dr. yonechi was also found frozen to death.  just over two hours ago. why is that relevant?  this isn't gonna work.  his body temperature was 8 degrees. the lowest reported body temperature ever survived by a human being was 70.  don't try and talk right now. we've inserted a tube down your throat to help you breathe. try not to fight the machine. let it breathe for you. 
 oh my god. he's on fire. he's having febrile siezures. 
 lisa, what happened? what, what could have happened to create such a violent cellular reaction?  so raising his body temperature may have catalyzed an opposite reaction, heating him internally.  what did he say?  but he just let you go?  lisa, if you're leaving anything out, if you're hedging the truth, you could be held accountable if jason committed a crime.  but there are people who could have figured it out - lucas menand, dr. yonechi. these people are now dead.  you know who this old man is, don't you?  but jason does. he has to, because this man is doing what jason can't, he's protecting your secret.  if he'd lie for you, what makes you think he wouldn't lie to you.  because it's not just her secret. it's jason's secret, too, and the old man is protecting jason.   i suppose it is an unlikely choice as a murder weapon.  are you sure this is the room?  i'm not sure if 'living' is a word i'd use on this place. 
 yonechi's flight information was taken down on this pad.  when was this taken?  it's a celebration, but of what?  what?  mulder, this is a photograph. it is a documented moment in time.  what?  and if your sister is your aunt and your mother marries your uncle, you'd be your own grandpa.  ok, so this photo that was never taken, when was it never taken.  mulder, the compound already exists. we have physical evidence.  back from where?  you're seriously suggesting that this old man is back from the future?  so what you're saying here is the old man is ...  i know what i wrote, mulder. i also know that the laws of physics would permit the theoretical possibility of time travel, but the limits of human endurance would prevent such a trip from ever happening.  how?  get her back in the tub. now.  how hot's the reading now? 
 we've resuscitated her, mulder. her body temperature is still high but it seems to have stabilized.  he's not here.  where are you?  mulder?  lisa? it's dana scully, can you hear me?  you're going to be fine. we knew to keep you submerged in order to maintain your body temperature. after what happened to dr. yonechi, your theory about the compound's instability, well, you proved it yourself.  the old man?  look, there's been some incongruous evidence. i've had difficulty explaining myself.  lisa, jason's dead. there was a fire in the mainframe room. i'm sorry.  i'll see you at the hospital. 
 you find the second corpse?  we should put out an apb on the old man.  even if it can never be proven?  i was 23 when i wrote that. separator no, seriously.  caudal appendages. fetuses have them. their coccyx enlargens to contain the spinal fluid and then it shrinks as the child develops. occasionally, it doesn't. it's extremely rare, but it has been known to happen.  so would i. no, mulder i think you're right, i think that something about this definitely warrants investigation. only not by us. i'd say that it's a job for the local health department.  did you experience any unusual complications during your pregnancy, amanda? did you undergo any kind of fertility treatment?  did he have a light saber?   how many times have you seen star wars, amanda?  okay. thank you.  uh huh.   okay. all right, i got it. thank you.   i think you're right, mulder.  coming? 
 good.   you see here, these identical band trait matches all showing a small loss of a part of chromosome number eight? each of these five children, born to five different women, all share the same father.  i should have thought of it sooner. this kind of appended birth defect is often passed on within a family.  though he most likely had it surgically removed somewhere along the way.  birds and the bees and the monkey babies, mulder.  well yeah, he's the only one in town.  so you're thinking that the doctor might have something to do with it.  settle down, nobody's going to be arrested.  five out of five.  no. there's a few things we have to clear up first.  you're the father of five children mr van blundht. is that not news to you?  do you have any insight into how five women came to be inseminated with your sperm?  you had sex with these women? how is it that none of them have any recollection whatsoever of that happening?  i do.  on, uh, on behalf of all the women in the world, i seriously doubt this is anything to do with consensual sex. i think it involved some form of rohypnol rape.  it's been called the date rape drug. high doses of it cause a loosening of inhibitions, memory loss. now if van blundht was somehow able to slip the drug to these women especially in conjunction with alcohol...  well he identified these women through his janitorial job at the medical park. he could have followed them anywhere, to a club, to a bar.  i think it's enough to keep him in custody while we check it out. 

 deputy, are you sure you don't remember what happened last night?  after hitting him over the head.  van blundht somehow physically transformed into his captor then walked out the door leaving no one the wiser?  mulder, why can't you just go for the simple answer? with that blow to the head the deputy might just as well have identified mcgruff the crime dog as his attacker.  two men, roughly the same build, same coloring. the addition of a uniform goes a long way to explain how one person can mistake one man for another at 3 o'clock in the morning.  but what are you saying, that that van blundht is an alien?  hopefully myself.  looking like someone else, mulder, and being someone else are completely different things.  all right, then. eleanor roosevelt.  why the hell not? (mulder is looking at a man in the next yard running a leaf blower. the man bears a slight resemblence to mark hamill.) yes. he, uh, attacked a sheriff's deputy during his escape from custody.  fortunately not.  sir, do you have any idea where your son might be?  no! (she looks at mulder) no. no thank you. (both eddie and mulder look disappointed.) uh no, actually i didn't. (mulder eyes "eddie sr" suspiciously. eddie runs off toward the back of the house, realizing that he's been caught) eddie junior, not senior.  (from downstairs) what? (mulder sees the pull string for the attic stairs and gives a slight tug just as scully comes upstairs. a white powder falls from the attic door. some of it falls onto his face and he backs off, spitting.) it's difficult to say. the quicklime burned the tissue even as it preserved it, so what killed him is one of two things i haven't figured out yet.  that would be this. it's striated muscle tissue. 
 in and of itself, nothing. where i found it however -  everywhere. his entire body. as far as i can tell, this man has a thin stratum of voluntary muscle tissue underpinning the entire dermal layer of his skin. that's not normal. this man's body is quite a scientific specimen, and thankfully it's preserved and intact. 
 in other words, there are six hundred and fifty four muscles in the human body, and this man essentially has six hundred and fifty five.  possibly. it could be a linked gene birth defect.  you got me, mulder. maybe none. it appears to be atrophied, although it may look that way as a result of the mummification. 
 what do you mean?  maybe. what are you suggesting?  isn't it much more likely, mulder, that this man simply has an identical twin? 
 where are you going?  ... and one single woman who didn't. 
 (on phone) scully.  i'm on my way. (he hangs up, but hears a noise overhead. he looks up and sees a bank of flourescent lights flickering and a ceiling tile slightly ajar. he reaches up and pushes the tile aside. what's going on?  what the hell happened?  you got a lead on him?  so what? that's it for us?  now you think there's no x-file here?  yes, sir. the subject, edward van blundht senior, died of natural causes ... specifically heart disease and advanced age.  most likely.  i entered him into the national sex offenders database. the west virginia state police have a photo and a description and they will coordinate with local authorities. there should be an arrest soon. 
 well, seeing as how it's friday, i was thinking i could get some work in on that monograph i'm writing for the penology review.  "diminished acetylcholine production in recidivist offenders".  though actually i might bag that though.  yeah, i have to say, mulder, the anomalous musculature in the corpse we found really has me intrigued. in fact, i think i'm gonna go to quantico and have some tissue samples run. i'll see you monday. 
  mulder, what's up?  no. no uh...come on in.  who's that for?  okay. have a seat. 
 more autopsy data. you know, everyone at the lab found mr van blundht pretty fascinating.  we discovered an additional anomaly related to the hair follicles in his scalp. i can't even begin to guess at the nature of it until we can run it through the transmission electron microscope. 
 yes, it is. so seriously mulder, what's going on? you okay? 
 what do you mean like...really talk? no, no we don't, mulder.  so there we are at two o'clock in the morning, me and my moire taffeta dress and marcus in whatever the hell it was he was wearing -  thank you very much. it had a um... a kelly green cummerbund on it. anyway, so, i know that marcus is thinking that it's now or never,  and i'm thinking...  i'm thinking "what is that siren i hear getting louder?"  it wasn't the cops it was the fire department. my friend sylvia and her idiot prom date ...  ... had built this campfire that went totally out of control and so we all had to ride back on the um... what do you call it? the um, the pumper truck. yeah. marcus was the twelfth grade love of my life.  i can't believe i'm telling you this!  no, i'm seeing a whole new side of you, mulder.  i like it.  what do you mean?  career wise? miles off target.  do you?  
 i don't imagine you need to be told this mulder, but you're not a loser. separatorseparator what am i looking at?  yep.   this is where you saw the body?  and the blood from the victim was pooling where?  but both the body and the blood were gone when you returned?  was the same woman that you saw caught up here in the machinery?  i would have thought that after three years you'd know exactly what that look was.  you're saying that what this man saw was the victim's ghost?  which is just another name for a ghost.  a death omen?  communicate what?  what?   and, does anybody recognize this man?  yeah, i found something here mulder ... in these photos taken by the forensics team. the third victim, her left hand, that band of pale skin. it looks like she wore a ring on that hand.  yeah. but she wasn't married.  no, not at all. 
  and in all the other murders he repeated the same ritual, changing the ring on each of the victims.  well, there's something called ego dystonia. it's a form of obsessive-compulsive disorder where a person has the persistent and inescapable impulses to change things, to organize, to reorganize. but it's not ordinarily something that escalates to a murderous impulse.  you really think that the killer is a patient here?  did he cop to making the call?  well ... when you're right, you're right.  harold spuller suffers from pervasive developmental disorder, which is sometimes called atypical autism. he's spent his entire life in and out of facilities just like this one. he has been medicated, he has received shock therapy and, aside from his other disabilites, he has been diagnosed with severe ego dystonic obsessive-compulsive disorder ... which would explain the switching of the victims rings.  you mean what made him snap? why, i think his outburst clearly showed a frustrated impulse towards violence when he was put in a challenging situation.  mulder, the man is disturbed. you could see the pressure building in him from the moment the interview began.  why are you now so unconvinced that harold spuller is the man we came here looking for?  "she is me."  well, i think i have an idea about that if not an explanation. howard spuller is at this facility voluntarily, which means he can come and go as he pleases, to kill those women or to hold down a job or both. 
 yeah. it's ok.  yeah, it's just, um, i'm fine. i just need to find a washroom. 
  yeah.  that would rule out harold spuller as the killer, huh?  i don't imagine he'd be too hard to find.  mulder ... i ...  i think i'm going to let you take care of that. i, uh, i think i'm gonna get this checked out just, you know, just to be safe.  no, no, i'm fine really. i've had the doctors keep a close watch and it's just, just precaution.  i'm fine. 
 this is different.  several months ago, i was diagnosed with a cancerous mass - a nasal pharyngeal tumor that can not be operated on and, uh, cannot be treated by conventional medicine.  i don't mean for this to sound too dire. my health has been good. i have been checked up on a weekly basis.  yes. it's been important to me.  why? um ...agent mulder has been concerned. he's been supportive through this time.   no.  i guess i never realized how much i rely on him before this ... his passion ... he's been a great source of strength that i've drawn on.  i saw something. i, i don't know what to trust. if i saw it because of the stress, because the image had been suggested to me or if it was a suggestion of my own fears.   maybe.  i saw a woman who had recently been murdered. i saw her. it appeared as if she was trying to tell me something.  no.  no. what are you doing mulder?  on what?  i'm fine.  what's up, mulder?  how?  that's what you need my medical opinion on?  i don't understand.  how do you know?  but you didn't see it yourself?  why?  what's harold spuller's connection?  oh, wait a minute, so harold knew the people that were killed?  even if what you're saying is true, harold wasn't the only one who claims to have seen these apparitions.  which is what?  harold spuller is dying too?  well, what if he isn't?  i'll meet you there. 
 maybe you were wrong.  then why would he do it?  maybe. we won't know until we can examine him. 
 is your name chuck?  do you, uh, do you share this room with harold?  do you know where he is?  why do you say that?  who told you that?  harold hasn't been taking his medication?  who? 
 does anybody else know about these pictures, chuck?  how are you feeling?  understandable.  will your family be a comfort? (scully notices that nurse innes is holding something in her left hand.) no children?  nurse innes, i'm afraid i'm gonna to have to ask you to step out into the hallway. (innes takes the scalpel from her pocket and slashes at scully, driving her to the wall. scully catches innes's arm and they struggle. scully forces innes to drop the scalpel by slamming her hand against the wall. they continue to struggle, and innes grabs scully's coat and uses it to sling her across the room and to the floor. as innes retrieves the scalpel, scully draws her gun and aims it at her. stay where you are! drop it! let it go! (innes pauses for a moment, then raises the scalpel and lunges forward. still lying on the floor, scully fires.)(from a ramp in the center, mulder hears the shot and runs back to the restroom. he is joined by alpert. scully is standing over innes, who is bleeding from a gunshot wound in the shoulder.) she's alive. let's get a paramedic in here.  yeah, she attacked me. (mulder starts to pick up the scalpel). you might want to bag that. i'm pretty sure it's the murder weapon. she had been taking harold's meds ... clonazepam and clozapine ... the unregulated effects of which are violence and unpredictable behaviour.  well, i went in to talk to harold's roommate and he said that harold thought that she'd been poisoning him. so i went in to confront her and she just went off.  i don't know. i mean, maybe in some drug-addled way, she was trying to kill happiness, harold's happiness, his love for those women, maybe trying to destroy something she thought she'd never have again.  i don't know. have they found harold?  what happened?  as a result of what?  well, harold spuller wasn't dying, mulder. he, he was killed as a result of what that woman took away from him.  i saw something mulder.  the fourth victim. i saw her in the bathroom before you came to tell me.  because i didn't want to believe it. because i don't want to believe it.  no, i came down here because you asked me to.   what do you want me to say? that you're right, that, that i believe it even if i don't. i mean, is that what you want?   no.  the doctor said i was fine.   i'm going home. 
separator hello?  mulder, what time is it?  where are you?  where?  what are you doing there?  are you hurt, mulder?  mulder? mulder? mulder?  you okay?  you're in shock. dry yourself off. i'll get you a blanket. do you feel sick? nauseous or dizzy?  were you here alone?  track my finger. do you know what day it is?  it's sunday. what's the last thing that you remember?  that was friday.  i don't know, but you packed a bag. there's a change of clothes in there. do you feel any pain? did you receive a blow to your head?  did you take anything, mulder?  are you sure you didn't cut yourself?  where's your weapon?  two rounds have been fired.  mulder, i need to get you to a hospital. you have to be examined by a neurologist. you have had a serious cerebral event. it could be a viral infection, or possibly the early stages of encephalitis.  mulder, the first thing that you need to do, is to take care of yourself. mulder, listen to me. we are going to figure this out, but first, we have to determine the cause. you cannot take something like this lightly. if this is an aneurysm, it could drop you in a second.  no.  you checked in alone around noon on saturday. the manager's got no record of any phone calls made from the room. no visitors.  you drove. he's got a license number of a car registered. do you have those keys you found in your room?  there's blood on the steering wheel, mulder. car's registered under a david cassandra. the address is right here in providence.  that's what i'm gonna find out, mulder, but first, i'm checking you out, because you have no business even walking around here.  you are taking a big risk, mulder. i feel strongly about this.  is this david cassandra's house?  we're with the fbi.  possibly. is amy or david reachable in anyway?  mulder, what's up?  how?  when?  do you know anything else about this house?  where's that?  if you've been here, mulder i don't think it was any time recently. the place looks abandoned and completely overgrown. mulder? mulder?! do you hear me? mulder? mulder? mulder? mulder, can you hear me? what happened?  you fell to your knees and you grabbed your head, like you were in terrible pain. you were completely non-responsive. do you remember any of that?  what do you mean, what you saw?  do you remember anything else?  your heart is racing.  it was some kind of a seizure. some kind of acute physiological disturbance. i couldn't tell if you lost consciousness but, it was definitely some kind of clonic event. kind of an electrical storm in the brain.  that's what a specialist is going to have to tell you, mulder.  mulder, you are not really good.  what, in your childhood?  i don't think anybody's lived here in a long time.  mulder. there's a gunshot wound to her heart. this must be amy cassandra. and her husband.  they'd like to ask you some questions. i told them about your condition. you don't have to speak to them if you don't want to.  mulder, i refuse to believe that you had any part in this.  agent mulder's not going anywhere but to a hospital.  mulder, i'd advise you not to say anything more--not until i take a look at those bodies and the forensics reports. did you see this?  do you mind?  i'm not sure. do you have a magnifying glass? thanks. i just want to make sure that in addition to the autopsy, you also do a craniotomy and a histological examination.  yeah. i think it is, too, but what i'm more interested in right now is why they died. mulder. i'm going to get you out of here.  did you make a confession?  detective curtis, before you go through all that trouble, i need you to consider evidence that i think casts doubt on agent mulder's involvement in this crime.  medical evidence. the toxicology report on amy cassandra indicates there was a rapid-acting anesthetic called ketamine in her system.  typically, but when ingested by a person, it can cause hallucinations.  so, i went down to the hospital to go over agent mulder's medical charts and his blood work, and there are traces of the same drug in his system.  probably injected--there was a bruise from an injection on amy cassandra's right hip. now, i think if you were examined again--that we would find a corresponding puncture.  i don't know, but the presence of such a powerful drug could explain his memory loss or the blackouts.  mulder, you have to help me out. there is nothing here that points directly to your guilt. i mean, unless somebody can show me with absolute certainty that you were holding the weapon that killed those two people, the rest of the narrative is far too convenient and suspect. the drug in your system already suggests other explanations. you're jailing an innocent man.  i'm a doctor. somebody call the paramedics. he's dead. i need to speak with detective curtis right now.  did this officer have a history of depression or mental illness?  how do you mean?  do you see these photos?  does this mean anything to you?  well, i think that it speaks to a pronounced mental illness. the compulsive and repetitive act of removing his own image from these photos leads me to believe that he not only believed these stories, but was traumatized by them.  amy cassandra. both your officer and amy cassandra had identical puncture wounds at the top of the frontal lobe. now, in her autopsy, amy cassandra's was a deep puncture through the cranium to the dura matter.  yes. i think your officer knew of amy cassandra, and somehow his suicide is linked to her death, which leads me to believe that what we're dealing with here is not murder. it's something else. it's possibly even a suicide pact.  did he say about what?  i need to talk to him alone, if you don't mind. [to mulder] i heard you didn't get much sleep.  i know that, and i think i've gathered enough proof and evidence of your innocence to get you out of here.  the forensics reports. the, uh, the shirt that you were wearing did have the victims' blood on it, but the blood-spatter pattern doesn't match the point-of-entry detail. in fact, detective curtis and his team have been able to put together enough contradictory evidence to make a statement to the press saying that the cassandras' death was as a result of a murder-suicide.  yes.  i think i have an idea about that, too. amy cassandra believed that she was an alien abductee.  yes... apparently. according to an article i read on amy, she had begun psychiatric treatment that was effectively recovering her past. the repetitive behavior exhibited in those paintings that we saw, was an expression of that treatment.  i can't say definitively, but judging from an almost identical suicide of a police officer who was receiving the same psychiatric care, i believe that the victims were suffering from something called waxman-geschwind syndrome, the symptoms of which are trance-like states, leading to vivid dreams about the past-- dreams that are more detailed than the conscious mind can recall. it's also called dostoyevsky syndrome because the russian novelist was suffering from it, too.  i can't explain that. i've arranged for your arraignment in one hour. i think that by then, detective curtis and i will have gathered enough forensics data that you'll be released.  this is the office of the psychologist that treated amy cassandra. have you been here before?  it's been here for a few days.  yes. we're investigating the deaths of amy and david cassandra. we understand that amy was a patient of yours.  are you referring to her belief that she was an abductee?  did you also use this treatment on a police officer named michael fazekas?  mr. fazekas shot himself in the head last night.  are you familiar with waxman-geschwind syndrome?  did you know amy cassandra suffered from it?  i know what you do.  this man is lying about more than that. i think that he administered the ketamine to amy and to you. i think that you were treated by him, and i think that your blackouts--these seizures--are a result of that.  why would you do that, mulder? why would you undergo something as crazy and dangerous as this? mulder? mulder! mulder? mulder?  no, i am not going to take that for an answer. you do not belong at work. you need to be somewhere where you can be monitored. you are a danger to yourself, and a danger to me. are you hearing me?  no, you're not driving. you're not doing anything until these symptoms go away.  to go where?  okay... but i'm driving. he's undergone a treatment. he believes it's helped him to remember things.  where's mulder?  did you ask dr. goldstein?  stop that car! hey! open the back door. what did you do to him? look, i know he came back here. this is the only place he would have gone. did you treat him? damn it! answer me!  where is he now?  what was the last thing he said to you?  yeah.  is he in there?  all right... that man in there is armed. he is a federal officer in dire need of medical attention. he is not himself. now, i'm going in there. if at any time he should flee that house, you need to tell your officers not to shoot.  mulder?  mulder, it's me.  mulder, put down the gun.  please, mulder... are you going to shoot me, mulder? is that how much this means to you? mulder, listen to me. you have been given a powerful hallucinogen. you don't know that these memories are yours. this is not the way to the truth, mulder. you've got to trust me.  put down the gun. let it go.  although cleared of any wrongdoing in the deaths of amy and david cassandra, agent mulder still has no recollection of the events that led to their deaths. his seizures have subsided, with no evidence of permanent cerebral damage, but i'm concerned that this experience will have a lasting effect. agent mulder undertook this treatment hoping to lay claim to his past--that by retrieving memories lost to him, he might finally understand the path he's on, but if that knowledge remains elusive, and if it's only by knowing where he's been that he can hope to understand where he's going, then i fear agent mulder may lose his course, and the truths he's seeking, from his childhood, will continue to evade him...driving him more dangerously forward in impossible pursuit.separator excuse me.   yeah. 
 yes sir. four years ago, section chief blevins assigned me to a project you all know as the x files. as i am a medical doctor with a background in hard science, my job was to provide an analytical prospective on the work of special agent fox mulder, who's investigations into the paranormal were fueled by a personal belief that his sister had been abducted by aliens when he was 12. i come here today, four years later, to report on the illegitimacy of agent mulder's work. that it is my scientific opinion that he became over the course of these years a victim. a victim of his own false hopes and of his beliefs in the biggest of lies. yes sir. recent events have shed new light on the factual and physical evidence that would serve to prove the existence of extra terrestrial life, which was the foundation of agent mulder's consuming devotion to his work.  agent mulder was recently contacted by man who's pursuit of this evidence seemed to coincide with his own. in his intense desire to believe, agent mulder was duped by this man. he was fooled by an act of scientific slight of hand calculated to perpetuate false truths, a larger lie. i am here today to expose this lie. to show the mechanism of deception that drew him and me into it. and to expose agent mulder's work for what it is. so he toppled over me and down the stairs.  speaking of bill, is he coming?   look at you, my big brother.   yes, i did. thanks for remembering this year.  i'm fine. let's get some dinner, huh?  no, i'm sorry.  father mccue, i...  father mccue.. i appreciate my mother's concern, and yours. but i'm being treated for my cancer and taking every precaution.  i haven't felt the need. i have strength and i... i'm not going to come running back now. it's just not who i am. i'd be lying to myself, and to you.  excuse me.  hello?   no, is something the matter?  contacted you about what?  what?   when?  i'm on my way. it's okay. who's this... arlinsky?  what am i coming to see?  who found him?  you have the ice core samples here?  i have no opinion, actually.  this is your holy grail, mulder. not mine.  it just means proving to the world the existence of alien life is not my last dying wish.  you already believe, mulder. what difference would it make? i mean, what would proof change for you?  only if it were disproven.  i don't think about it, actually, and i don't think it can be proven.  i can't go with you, mulder.  what i couldn't tell agent mulder, what i had only learned myself, was that the cancer which had been diagnosed in me several months earlier had metastasized. and the doctors told me, sort of a miracle, it would continue to aggressively invade my body, advancing faster each day toward the inevitable. but not in old ice.  so it hasn't been tampered with?  another agent asked me to.  from a site in the yukon territory, why?  plant or animal?  from what?  is it capable of cell division?  yes. please. excuse me, i'm looking for dr. vitagliano.  dr. vitagliano, is he here?  i'm supposed to meet him here. actually, i a little late.  bill. what are you doing here?  thank you. um. where's mom?  i was ... ahhh ... knocked down a flight of stairs, but i'm okay, luckily.  i told mom not to tell you.  because it's very personal... because i don't want sympathy.  oh, now come on, bill...  what should i be doing?!  hey, look, just because i haven't bared my soul to you, or to father mccue, or to god, it doesn't mean that i'm not responsible to what's important to me!  thank you for coming.   have you run it through the ncic?  try the federal data base.   where does he work?   stop! federal agent! hold it!  michael kritschgau?! you are under arrest! identify your location!  get out of the car! now!  move!   put your hands on the car.   i don't know what you're talking about.  i had reached agent mulder at a warehouse just outside of washington in sethburg, virginia. they had managed the frozen corpse by helicopter down the side of the mountain and across the canadian border in a refrigerated truck. after conducting a limited physical examination agent mulder was ready to believe that the body was that of an extraterrestrial biological entity. that he had finally found the proof which had eluded him. which would confirm not only the existence of alien life but of his sister samantha's abduction.  he told me a story which detailed, point by point, the systematic way in which agent mulder had been deceived and used and how i as his partner i had been led down the same path. losing a family member due to my allegiance and contracting a fatal disease which i was told was engineered by the men who responsible for agent mulder's deception.  i was only able to convince him to meet me so that he might hear the story the way i had. mulder...   what?  so is this man.   who did this, mulder? mulder?   you said it yourself, mulder. more tests needed to be run.  cellular material found in the ice core samples were a direct match for what this man kritschgau described. hybrid cells, chimeras within the matrix.  mulder, everything this man described. you can't just guess at these details. i'm sorry, but the facts here completely overwhelm any argument against them!  mulder, the only lie here is the one that you continue to believe.  because it's easier to believe the lie. isn't it?  he said that the men behind this hoax... behind these lies... gave me this disease to make you believe. 
 earlier this morning, i got a call from the police, asking me to come to agent mulder's apartment. the detective asked me ... he needed me to identify a body...  agent mulder died late last night from an apparent self-inflicted gunshot wound to the head. [to be continued ...]