 You need evidence to justify our reassignment. I've just got to bring it back from the ashes.   How can it be denied? We're the only reason the X-Files were reopened in the first place. There's no other reason to reopen them.  Well, then, who is?  Was there a vote? 
  Excuse me.  Inside or out, I don't see that there's a damn thing you can do for me.  I don't have that proof just yet.   Yeah, if you're doing my filing.  What are you doing in my office, Agent Spender?  If you're about to tell me that you were sent down here to work on the X-Files I think the failure is simple judgment. I don't care what patronage got you this job. I put my life in here. I'm not going to let some brown-nose just slide in and take it all away from me.  No? Who is? 
  Diana, back on your feet.  I guess that's the only way you could stab me in the back. 
  Scully, come here and take a look at this. Ever seen anything like this? 
 According to the investigator's notes in the file they're from an attack by a Native American man on a scientist.  It says in the file he used his bare hands. 
 Uh-huh.  Aw. Somebody broke a nail.  It ain't RuPaul.  The body of the other victim was found here on the sofa his viscera torn from his torso. But the MEs report says that the times of death were hours apart which means that this victim was dead hours before the second attack.  There wasn't an attack. I think it was celebrating its birthday. The first victim must have gotten infected with the virus somehow. Right here on the sofa was where the creature was born.  That would account for the violence done to the man's torso. The virus producing an extraterrestrial biological entity that ripped away his chest as it birthed itself right here. Look. 
 That's exactly what I'm saying.  I don't see there's any argument here. You admit yourself that the crime report is a lie.  What does it take? For this thing to come up and bite you on the ass? I saw these creatures. I saw them burst to life. You would've seen them, too but you were infected with that virus. You were passed out over my shoulder.  I'm talking about extraterrestrial life alive on this planet in our lifetime. Forces that dwarf and precede all human history. I'm sorry, Scully, but this time your science is wrong. 
 What happened here?  Let us through.  Diana, let us in here.  A man was murdered.  Then why are you here?  There is a connection.  I hope you know what you're doing, Diana. I hope you know whose errand you're running.  It's here, Scully, and they know it.  Give me the keys and get in the car. 
 They were butchers.  How did you get in our car?  Why are you here?  The kid could find this thing.  We could get his fever down.  We don't have the X-Files.   Diana, what are you doing here?  I'm listening.  Who sent you?  Why? To convince me of your noble intentions?  You take Gibson.  To find this thing. 
 With who?  Who removed it?  Maybe that's why it's there. It wants heat. It needs heat. This thing gestated abnormally fast. What if heat activates it? It could spur on the virus and the rapid development of the entity. But it's still seeking heat. Why?  No. Open the door, you son of a bitch! Open the door! Open it! Open it! Open the door, you...  Open it! Open the door! 
 Gibson! Gibson! Gibson! 
 Gibson! Gibson! Gibson! Gibson! 
 It would help if you'd shut the door. It would make it harder for them to see that I'm totally disregarding everything I was told.  They can't take away the X-Files, Scully. They tried.   Agent Fowley's report was a means to an end. Trying to protect the work. Protect the X-Files.  Agent Fowley took me to that plant at great risk to herself where I saw something that you refuse to believe in. Saw it again, Scully. And though it may not say it in her report, Diana saw it, too. And no matter what you think she's certainly not going to go around saying that just because science can't prove it isn't true.  You asking me to make a choice?  I can't accept that. Not if it refutes what I know to be true.  That's the connection.  Wait a minute. I don't understand. You're saying that Gibson Praise is infected with the virus?  So if that were true, that would mean that Gibson is in some part extraterrestrial. SEPARATOR But we do have a free copy of the Watchtower for you if you'd like.   So routine, it numbs the mind.  Hey, Scully, take a look at this.   Thank you, Captain. That's no problem. We'd be happy to help. Mm-hmm.   See you soon.  
 Come on, Scully. Just one quick side trip.  Running down people that buy fertilizer? This is scut work, bozo work-- the FBI equivalent of being made to wear an orange jumpsuit and pick up trash by the side of the highway-- they mean to humiliate us.  You saw that news report. What did you make of that?  In the words of their captain "she just sort of popped." And what about this guy who supposedly tried to take her hostage, her husband? Looked to me like he was trying to warn the cops before she died. Now, the sun will rise in America tomorrow regardless of whether or not we're at yet another farm investigating yet another enormous pile of doo-doo. We can be in and out in a day. Nobody has to know. 
 Why can't we see him?  40-year-old roofer. No history of mental illness. No prior record.  What do you think?  I'm going to stay here and see if I can see Crump. 
 Captain, where's Montello?  So that's where it started. That's Crump's home. Then he headed east in this direction on the 5 about ten miles to the Utah border where he stole the car.  Yeah, but you caught up with him in Wells. Where's that?  So that means that he started off in this direction. Then all of a sudden, he turned around and he headed west... To Wells. Why? 
  Yeah.   Yeah.   Uh-huh.      Well, that's going to be a little tough, Scully. 
 Crump? Crump, what else can you tell me about what's happening to you?  "Mister." I got you.  I can think of something else I'd like to call you. I could put "mister" in front of that, too if you'd like.   Excuse me?   It's Mr. Mulder to you, you peanut-picking bastard. Now, Mr. Crump what can you tell me about what's happening to you? 
 What?  What do you mean?  I can't... I can't go... I can't go left. There's only trees there. Crump. 
 Crump... It's west. Huh, west? You got to head west. It's just like you did with your wife. You took her and you headed west. It's not just motion; it has to be in one direction. Is that right? What the hell happened to you? One more time. You woke up this morning then what?  You woke up this morning but you didn't go to work. Why? CRUMP: It was raining. You don't shingle in the rain. I was up at 6:00, reading the paper. What was your wife doing?  You looked up.  What caused it?  I'm sorry about your wife.  Crump...  You think the government did this to you? CRUMP: Hell, yeah. Who else? You see it all the time on the TV: they're dropping Agent Orange, they're putting radiation in little retarded kids' gonads... Oh, yeah. You sons of bitches sneaking around my woods at night-- I seen you. You think I don't know?
 Well, on behalf of the international Jewish conspiracy I just need to inform you that we're... almost out of gas. Okay, Crump, we got about one more mile. I'll make it fast. You ready? Here goes nothing. 
 Hey, turn on the pump! Number four! Three! Number three! Turn it on!  I'm doing 70.  Okay. 
  That was an apology, right? Gee, I don't know if I can see to drive my eyes are tearing up so bad.  Why am I doing what?  It's not in your best interest to make me question that right now.  I guess you don't.  Hey, you got to stay alive if you want to stick it to the government. If you die, you let them off the hook. Am I right? Huh?  We'll figure this out.  Crump?  Mr. Crump...   Yeah, aside from terminal cell phone withdrawal... That, and I got to pee. Where are you?   Headed where?   I'm guessing wherever the hell route 36 ends but we can't stop, Scully. I'm kind of at a loss as to what to do next.   Well, lay it on me.   Yeah. It uses an antenna, like, 50 miles long. The military uses it to communicate with the trident submarines, Project Seafarer, Project Haarp.   Not to mention that as a potential weapons application it's been referred to as "electrical nerve gas" or may be behind the so-called "Taos Hum."   But with constant movement somehow ameliorating that pressure making it bearable. But why only westward movement?   The big question, Scully, is what do we do about it?   We'll be there. 
 Well, whether they did this to you intentionally or not, you were right. They did it to you.  Your one chance is that we meet my partner at the end of the highway. There, she will insert a long, large-bore needle into your inner ear hopefully relieving the pressure. Now, when we get there she's going to have to work fast. She's only going to have one chance. She's not going to be able to use any anesthetic and it will probably leave you deaf.  Sure. 
 Why don't you bill me?  Okay. So are we done here? Back to the bozo work investigating huge piles of manure? SEPARATOR I got two words for you, buddy-- Pearl Harbor.  After Poland, Hitler's on his way to Denmark, Holland and France with a few stops in between. The French all but roll over on us, the Italians seize their opportunity and the Japanese come through the back door. It's a long, bloody story. It fortunately has a happy ending.  Yeah, you come out on the side of history with no small amount of help from us. Not much to apologize over the next 50 years except for maybe the Spice Girls.  You speak German. What was that shouting about up there?  Are we?  But the Captain knew something. He wouldn't give up the wheel.  Hey, this ship can't go to Germany.  I got news for you-- you're not carrying munitions. It's something far more deadly.  Thor's Hammer isn't a weapon. It's a man, a man who will help build a weapon-- a bomb that'll win the war for whoever has it.  I saw him in the ballroom. 
 Listen to me! Listen to me! You can't take this ship to England. You'll never make it.  You can't take the ship to Jamaica, either. The Germans will hunt you down no matter what course you steer.  My name's Mulder.  No, I want you to take this ship and turn it back around the way you came.  You've got to turn the ship around.  The future.  Actually, the past.  Well, I can explain it to you.   Turn the ship around or Hitler rises, Germany wins and your children will never know what freedom is! 
  I don't know.   I don't know.  None.  I'll answer the question.  That man is the scientist. 
  Where am I?   Ooooo.  I feel... Like hell.  What happened to me?  What did I do?  Say that again? 
 You were there.  You were there, Scully. 
  And he was there, too.  No, you were there with the Nazis.  You saved the world, Scully.  No, no, no.... The Queen Anne-- I found it. You were there with Thor's Hammer. I told you you had to turn the ship around and then I jumped overboard.  No, no, no. You and I were on that ship, Scully. In 1939.  I would've never seen you again. But you believed me.  Mmm.  
 Hey, Scully.  
 I love you. SEPARATOR (pointing at a sign) Milepost 134. Two miles to go.  Because of where this particular crackpot works. Groom Lake. Area 51. Where the military has conducted...  It's all our questions. The proof that we've suspected but never been able to hold in our hands. That... that proof is here.  What is your point?  (defensive) This *is* a normal life. ( SCULLY smiles to herself. They hear tires squealing and see two pairs of headlights approaching very quickly from the rear. ) I don't know if we're going to meet that crackpot after all. (They stop as a total of four official-looking white sport utility vehicles surround them. Several armed SOLDIERS get out.) Why? It's a public highway.  What are you doing out here?  Oh, if I had the name, I'd give it to you.  Some whistle-blower working inside the so-called Area 51. Said he had some "big deal" information. I got to tell you... The whole thing turned out to be just one gigantic mistake on our part. 
 Sir, you're absolutely right. And on behalf of Agent Scully and myself, I'd like to apologize for our blatant disregard of your direct order. You have our word. We will never ever do that again. 
SEPARATOR  Why are you doing this?   Mulder. 
  Oh, yeah?   Well, I guess you were right, Scully. Just another crackpot who watches too much Star Trek.   Hey, Scully? I, uh, know it's not your normal life, but... Thanks for coming out there with me. SEPARATOR Oh, Mulder. Fox Mulder. Though I ask you not to make that known to anybody. The FBI likes to keep our work on these cases very hush-hush.  Oh. No, no, no. I'll thank him for you because I have to call in my, uh, progress report.  Oh, me, too. All right. 
 Not many. Certainly not in the way yours did, Mrs. Weinsider.  You mentioned a fire in the room, in your account and a, uh... a devil that held your legs...  But according to your statement your baby... was not a normal baby.  Um... You were right there in bed with your wife the whole time Mr. Weinsider?  But according to... your wife's statement, at one point she... she reached over for you in the bed and you weren't there.   Yeah. Mind if I use your phone... Wayne?   Hey, Scully, it's me. 
  I, uh... Before I tell you I-I'm going to ask you to keep an open mind.   Call it what you like. Here in Roanoke they're calling it a demon baby snatching.   Look, I want you to look at this woman's charts. Strange in utero deformities were detected. I'm going to courier them to you, all right?   Scully, Spender just round filed this case-- it's unconscionable.   Like that's any different from the assignment we're stuck with.   Scully, this is a classic case of demon fetal harvest- what they called in the middle ages atum nocturnem-- the impregnation of an unwitting woman by a dark lord of the underworld...   Exactly.   Yeah, but this is the real deal. You check that woman's charts, you'll get hard evidence. Check her prenatal ultrasound. 
  Just humor me, Scully. Take a look at those medical records. I think they'll prove my theory.  Mulder. 
  What'd you find?   Describe them to me.   "Protuberances?" You mean, like horns? 
  Do you think this is something that could be passed along by the father?   What are you talking about?   "Mandrake?"   You think Mrs. Weinsider self-prescribed?   Yeah? What? Yes?   All right, thank you. 
 Mandrake.  Hey, why don't you just let your sister talk? It might clear things up.  She's not under arrest.  Wayne-- Mr. Weinsider-I-I don't want to arrest Laura. I'm sure you'd hate like the devil for that to happen as well. 
 So why don't you tell Deputy Stevens that it's okay to search the premises so we can clear up any misunderstanding about who's responsible for what happened here?  Whatever else we find I know everybody in this house is regular. 
 I know what you are. 
 Hey, Wayne. Where you going?  You seem like you're in an awful big hurry.  Really? An appointment? Appointment with who?  Right, you're in the insurance business. That must take you out on the road an awful lot, huh?  So where is our appointment? How far do we have to go?  Come on, Wayne, I'll race you. 
 Okay, speed racers. That's enough driver's education for today. 
  Yeah.   What?   Tell him I'm down here doing a background check on somebody.  
 I was down in the basement at county records doing a background check.  That's where I was. I was piecing together the history of the man that did this to her. 
 Perfect.  Not a shred of evidence is exactly the evidence I'd hoped you'd find. Check this out.  Wayne Weinsider. He's a Czech national, emigrated in 1994. He's also known as Bud Hasselhoff, also known as Gordy Boitano.  There's more. Read on.  I'm not suggesting anything. I think the facts speak for themselves. SCULLY: Mulder, I will accept that a man can be demonic that he may have demon-like attributes but why would a demon-- if there were such a thing-- BOTHER WITH A 9: 00-to-5:00 make room for daddy routine just so he can off his wife and unborn child? I don't know why; I'm not a psychologist but this is the best explanation for how that I've heard. You're going to find discrete osteopathic deformities to the upper vertebrae, two bony protrusions between the parietal and occipital lobes of the skull. 
 Put out an APB for your brother-in-law. He's not going to come back here.  Just find him. 
 He's done this to other women here, Scully just like in Czechoslovakia. My guess is that baby we just dug up belonged to one of Wayne's other wives.  He's exercising his biological imperative and he'll do anything or say anything he has to to succeed.  Because they're demons and he wants a normal child.  15527 Leahy. That's in Cave Spring. It's West Roanoke. Cave Spring. Thank you. Thank you very much for your help. 
 Scully, hold on. 
 Harmony Mutual Insurance has a second address for Wayne Weinsider all the way across the other side of Roanoke County.  Well, think about it, Scully. He meets or screens prospective women through work. That's probably why he came to this country in the first place-- bigger gene pool more women-- then he plants as many seeds as he can. Let's just hope he hasn't been able to harvest many more of them.  Wayne! It's over.  Where's the baby, Wayne?  Put the shovel down. Your lies won't work anymore.  Where's the baby?  You can't blame anyone else like you did with Laura.   Hey, cut it out! Come on. You're in enough trouble as it is. You don't want to complicate your situation further by endangering his life again, do you?  I think the why is directly related to the how.  We should just go talk to this other wife of his. This woman Betsy. Come on.   How many?  I know.  I don't think he did anything with it.  These weren't Wayne's babies, Scully.  I think Wayne realized something last night. That's why he was out here digging. He realized that he'd met someone even more evil than he was-- who would sacrifice what he desperately wanted for himself.  It was no coincidence that she ran into us last night. We were taken in by her just like Wayne was-- by a woman who would say anything or do anything to get what she wanted-- who was even more driven than he was.  To have what only Wayne could give her.SEPARATOR Nice to meet you, sir.  Come on, Scully. You act like I intentionally misled you. Over the past 30 years this town has had more tornadoes heat waves and hailstorms than any other town in the country. It's like ground zero for extreme weather.  Well, if that's true-- if Daryl Mootz is controlling the weather for profit-- then that is a crime and that should be investigated.  Yeah, but how many scapegoats lease office space? 
  Agents Mulder and Scully with the FBI. We're looking for Daryl Mootz.  We want to see the king.  Well, when you say "on business" you mean he's making it rain?   This, uh, TV station-- is that far from here?  It's like looking in a mirror. 
 Well, from what I've read about Kroner you've had more than your fair share of unusual weather.  No, no, um... What about the rain?   I have a list of over 40 names here-- people in four different counties-- who claim that Daryl Mootz has made it rain for them.  According to his schedule the King should have been here by now. 
 How do you explain your unique ability?  Try me. I watch the Weather Channel.  Well, this is not without historical precedent. The Old West was full of traveling men who claimed to be rainmakers. The Pueblo Indians even had a rain dance.  Look at this, Scully  September 20, 1991, it rained rose petals for nearly an hour.  She's not. Neither is Daryl. Check this out-- on the same day that it rained rose petals. "Irene Hardt, beloved wife and devoted mother passed away yesterday afternoon... She's survived by one son, Holman Hardt."  Holman Hardt is manufacturing the weather. Did you see how relieved he was when he learned that Daryl was drunk? I've been doing some checking. Holman Hardt has been hospitalized five times with nervous exhaustion, each time coinciding with a major meteorological event.  Most people will admit that the weather plays a significant role in the way they feel, right? There's even that disorder.  Mm-hmm, yeah. Well, who's to say that it doesn't work the other way around-- that the way someone feels can affect the weather... that the weather is somehow an expression of Holman Hardt's feelings or-or-or better still, the feelings that he's not expressing? 
 This is about you, Holman. I'm here to help you. I'm perfectly happy with my friendship with Agent Scully.   Just tell her how you feel. 
 And Holman. I do not gaze at Scully. 
 Well? 
  Oh, you did it.  What are you talking about?   Hey! Hey, Daryl. Cut it out, man. 
 Daryl.   Scully, do you know anything about, um... weather radar?  What does red mean?  Looks like we're not going to be able to catch our plane.SEPARATOR I think the spirits are among us.  Sounds like there's somebody walking around upstairs. 
 There. You hear that?  There's nothing to be afraid of.  Ghosts are benevolent entities. 
 Mostly.  Shh! What was that? 
  Mm-hmm.  Tell me you're not afraid.   I got your back.  No one lives here.  Must have been some kind of electrical surge.  Is it?  Yeah.  Why would anyone want to live in a cursed house?  Every couple that's ever lived here has met a tragic end. Three double murders in the last 80 years. All on Christmas Eve. 
 Whoa... There's that sound again 
  I think there's a hiding space under the floorboards.  There may be somebody trapped under there.  I got to get them out.  Hey, you have a gun, right? Rationally, you've been in much more dangerous situations. 
 I was half right.  Hey, Scully... Look at this.  Yeah.  What?  How embarrassing.  Oh... Scully...   Hey, Scully...  All right. I'm beginning to... Get this.  I should come out... This door.  Scully! 
 Scully! Hey, Scully. Scully, can you hear me? 
 Hey! Who are you?  No.  That's very funny.  Have you looked at the door?  Tell me what you see.  That's a door with a brick wall behind it.  You're playing tricks on me.  Yeah? That's a trick in itself, isn't it? You've been playing tricks on us since we got here.  Ah, that's very funny coming from a ghost.  Strange folks?  Like those folks under the floorboard 
 How did you do that?  There were corpses here-- bodies buried under the floorboards.  No.  No.  Wow. I didn't know such a thing existed.  And what category is that?  That's a category?  I don't think that pegs me exactly.  Because I have seen them?  "Paramasturbatory"?  All right, now just, uh... Just back off for a second.   I'm not alone.  No, I came here with my partner. She's somewhere in the house.  I'd just like to find my partner.  Come in. Aren't you supposed to be opening Christmas gifts with your family?   I-it must have been.  When have you proved me wrong?  You didn't want to be there? 
  Oh, that's, um... That's self-righteous and... narcissistic of me to say, isn't it?  Now, um... I know we said that we weren't going to exchange gifts but, uh... I got you... a little something. 
 Merry Christmas. SEPARATOR  Yeah, in the time that you worked with... Ms. Ermentrout did you find her to be a trustworthy person?  Punctual. Punctual is good.   Hey, Scully maybe if we get really lucky next time they'll let us clean toilet bowls.  No. That would make way too many people way too happy. 
  Just you?  Don't forget your toilet brush.  No. No, ma'am, not you. 
 Hmm? 
 Being nosy.  Eating my heart out. They're sending you on an X-File.  That's not what I'm reading. I'm thinking murder by telekinesis. I'm thinking maybe a shamanistic death touch. I'm thinking about the Muslim superstition that to photograph someone is to steal their soul.  So they're splitting us up, huh?  No?  Who told you that? Obviously, if you do a good job they're not going to stick you back here. 
 Right? 
  A pleasure to meet you, Peyton.   Hi. My name is Fox Mulder. We used to sit next to each other at the FBI. 
  How's your X-File coming?   You can't hold him? What about the stabbing?  I told you I'm nosy. Why are you letting him go?   But you still think Fellig's a murderer, huh?   As in he, uh, plugs up like a cork when you stab him? 
  Well, young man Ritter has been sending progress reports to Kersh. My computer may have inadvertently intercepted a few of those. He's got nice things to say about you, though... mostly. Why don't you let me do a little background check on Fellig for you.   Come on. It's, you know... it's what I do now. I'm getting good at it. 
  Mulder.   Hi.   Yeah. Henry Srand and L.H. rice.   Uh, no, but there's a... there's, like, a big gap before 1939.   Absolutely, yeah. 
  Agent Ritter, it's Agent Mulder. Is Agent Scully there with you?   Me neither, and D.C. Cellular says her phone is turned off.   Well, you can find her for me.   Good, because that's where I think she is. And you were right, Fellig is a murderer. Under the name of Louis Brady, he suffocated two patients in a Connecticut hospital. He says he meant to catch up with death. One year into his prison sentence he walked off a work detail. The manhunt never officially ceased. 
  1929.   Look, Ritter, don't sweat the math. It's him. Just get there and find Agent Scully.   You're a lucky man. 
 Coroner's report came back on Fellig. Says he died of a single gunshot wound. That's all it said.  Well, I, uh... talked to your doctor and... he says you're doing great. You're making the fastest recovery he's ever seen.  No, no, I-I... I think he would have. I-I just think that that death only looks for you... once you seek its opposite. 
SEPARATOR Dr. Orgel, you visited the FBI this morning. You came to see Mr. Skinner.  Go around back.  Drop the gun. Drop it! 

 Yeah, so's your mom.  Hey, give it a rest, huh?! 
 What?   You need to get to a hospital.  This is a crime scene. What would you rather I be doing?  I'd be a lot more concerned with the preservation of Dr. Orgel.  Hello, Senator... Actually, time is my only consideration, Senator.  This was taken only three days ago. It's of you and Dr. Kenneth Orgel holding a Senate Resolution-S.R. 819, I think it's called. What is that?  A friend of mine is going to die because of S.R. 819. I don't know how, I don't even know why but I'm betting you do.  This man may die; he may only have a few hours to live.  Hey, do you have the key to this drawer?  AD Skinner's in the hospital. Somebody poisoned him.  For doing his job.  You have a letter opener? In your desk? Something? (MULDER goes back out to her desk and finds a letter opener. Then he looks down at the mail on the desk and picks up a large envelope with an official looking Senate stamp on it.) What's his condition?  Well, can you fight it?  Maybe we do. 
 I found this with Skinner's morning mail. He was doing a security check on a Senate bill for violation of trade laws involving sensitive technology.  No. This bill was going to vote in the Senate. All it was waiting on was Skinner's review and an analysis by Dr. Kenneth Orgel.  No. Orgel didn't poison anybody. Orgel came to the FBI to tell Skinner what he knew-- that there was a gross violation of export laws involving new technology.  You know what that means?  That's not me. 
 Thank you.  Hello.  It's a computer synth voice.  Somebody that must know he's here.  Federal agent! Stop right there!  Hey! 
 What other forensic evidence were you able to lift?   Don't hate me 'cause I'm beautiful. What else?  From where?  Where is he? Where's Orgel?  I don't believe you. You lied to me this morning; you're lying to me now.  Where is Orgel?! I need to know what he knows. A friend of mine is dying.  Tell me what you know, Senator. This is about S.R. 819 isn't it? What the hell did they put in Skinner?  It's the same technology that S.R. 819 will export.  Nanotechnology. Microscopic, atom-sized machines? Machines can be stopped.  I don't believe that.  Not before I expose you and your role in this. 
 I will stop this!  The man who poisoned you was at the FBI that day. Scully was able to pull these off the security video tapes.  Hopefully, it might jog your memory. Maybe you can identify this man.  S.R. 819 was withdrawn by committee late last night. Without explanation.  If that was his true motive. If he wanted to poison you to prevent you from investigating S.R. 819, why call you to tell you that? This man worked for the government that was to receive this technology. He drove one of their cars and he killed one of his own to save you.  Yes. Yes, I do. And I have an idea who may be behind all this. But I'd need your authority to continue the investigation. SEPARATOR Game.  Hey, Homegirl, word up.  Oh, Scully, I got game.  No, I'm ready to J-O-B just not on some jagoff shoeshine tip.   No background checkin' jagoff shoeshine tip.   About what?  You looking for work, Agent Spender? 'Cause if you are, I got a whole pile in that middle drawer that I'd love to shove down someone's throat.  They found your mother.  I didn't hear the magic word.  Are you asking me, Agent Spender?  The truth is out there, Agent Spender. Maybe you should find it for yourself. 
 Where did you expect to find me?  It wasn't exactly an offer.  It is an opportunity made to order for the powers that be.  This is exactly the kind of mistake they've been waiting for to come down on me full force.   I know.  I have no doubt that what Cassandra would tell us would expose more than just what happened to her.  Shh. Shhh. Shhhh.   Don't... don't do that. 
 Look at you.  Well, I had reasons for doubt when I met you, Cassandra.  Then where is she?  What?  What are they here for?  It's the virus-- the black oil.  And you know who these men are?  They're going to be monitoring any work on our machines, in or out. We need access to files. And a name that'll raise flags. 
 Smokey's got a name. 

 Who?  What's that?  What's it stand for? 
 Scully, you want to go one-on-one? We got nothing but time now that we're on administrative leave.  Nothing you could ever find would be accurate or credible. 
 That's C.G.B. Spender and my father.  That's the same night as my sister.  The project is still going on.   Thanks for coming. I know it's late and you've been forbidden to have any contact with us. 
 Her life's been in danger going on 30 years... just not the way I think it is now.  Men who've conducted medical experiments in what began as a secret government project but what is now the most private global enterprise.  To develop alien/human hybrids that will survive the viral apocalypse when aliens colonize the earth.  Files that Agent Scully dug up that make all the right connections to Dr. Eugene Openshaw to my sister, to my father... to Agent Spender's father.  The Smoking Man.  I know that Agent Scully has her doubts about the purposes of these experiments but I also know that she herself believes she was a test subject when she was abducted four years ago.  Because I believe Cassandra Spender represents the final stages of these experiments-- that she may very well be the first successful alien/human hybrid.  Because... the men who created her would rather kill her than let her expose the enterprise.  Assigned by Agent Spender? 
 Cassandra?  How did you get here? How did you get out of your room?  Let go!  Stand away, Scully. SEPARATOR Who are you!  Who are you?!  What's going on?!  Who are you?!  Who are you?!  There must be some kind of mistake. I signed up for the aroma therapy treatment.  Where the hell do you think we are?  Who called you?   Scully...   Scully...  Hey... I heard gray is the new black.   No. Actually, you hide your feelings very well.  Apparently not. I just spoke to AD Skinner. He was at the hospital when Cassandra went missing. He heard Spender make the phone call to the CDC.  Well, then why did she come to my apartment demanding to be killed?  No. It won't continue. It doesn't have to anymore. She knows what she is, Scully. That's why it's so dangerous for her to be alive. That's why she came to my apartment asking to be killed.  I think she's the one, Scully. Hello? Hello? Oh, oh, Ma'am. These shoes? They're, they're two sizes too small. I was wondering if I could get a ... 
  A pair that fit, maybe? 
 Marita? 
 Who?  What have they done to you?  Like the tests on Cassandra Spender?  Then what were the tests on you?  In secret from the alien colonists. The hybrid program was in cooperation with the aliens but the conspirators never intended to succeed... to finish the work.  To make a vaccine and build a weapon.  She's the first, isn't she? She's the first successful alien/human hybrid.  The latest in home security.  I got a call from Scully. Said it was urgent. 
  I don't have time for this.  I know her, Scully. You don't.   I hope you've got something more than that to indict her with.  For the purpose of what?  MUFON.  So she's collecting data. Big deal.  Scully, you're reaching.  So you're suggesting that Diana is monitoring these abductees? Monitoring these tests?  Because you've given me no reason here to do otherwise. 
 Scully, you're making this personal.  Diana? Diana? 
  Sorry. Nobody home. What are you doing here?  Interesting company you keep.  You feeling smug, C.G.B.? Yeah, I know your name. I know your game and I got nothing to lose.  Why?  That presumes my cause is wrong.  I'm not the one using innocent people - innocent women - as lab rats, trying to create a hybrid - an alien/human hybrid - so that I might save my own sorry ass when they finally come knocking... 
 You find that funny?  He didn't give up my sister. He was forced to. You made him do it.  Towards your own selfish end.  No, you only managed to postpone it.  You put those lives on hold so you alone could survive.  You gave them your children! You gave them your wife! You sent them away... like they were things.  You sent them away to be tested on.  You're a liar. My sister wasn't taken from any hangar. She was abducted from our home right in front of me.   And now you've succeeded?  To work secretly on a vaccine.  You can't do that.   Stop it now or I will stop it.  You stop it... or everyone dies.  I'm sorry. I didn't mean to scare you.  Nothing. Not a damn thing. 
 I came here looking for evidence.  Evidence that you'd lied to me-- that you had loyalties other than to me or to the X-Files.  I didn't find anything Diana. But something found me.  Fate. Destiny. Whatever it's called when you... when you realize the choices you thought you had in life were already made.  You were being paid a visit by young Jeffrey Spender's father. The Cigarette-Smoking Man came looking for his son who has now taken up the futile cause that used to be mine-- against his father.  Because there's nothing to be done. And at some point, you just have to accept that the only way those you love are going to survive is if you give up. 
 That's where it all begins. That's where we need to be if we want to survive it. 
  Hey, Scully. It's me.   I'm with Diana.   No. We're coming to get you. You're coming with us.   Cassandra's gone, Scully.   Scully, it's no use.   Going where?   Who gave you this information?  All right. I'm going to send you on ahead.  This may be our last chance to stop them. Turn around. Turn around, Scully. 
 I think this is him.  Our lives are in danger. We don't have much time.  If somebody overheard us, it might create mass panic.  El Rico Air Base. 
 I've had answers for years.  No one would ever listen.  They burned themselves. With a choice made long ago by a conspiracy of men who thought they could sleep with the enemy. Only to awaken another enemy.  It means the future is here, and all bets are off. SEPARATOR Morning.  (looking fondly at SCULLY) Oh, it was wonderful. We just spooned up and fell asleep like little baby cats. Isn't that right, Honeybunch?  (indicating the box of dishes) I'll just leave this here then.  Be more aesthetically pleasing, huh? WIN SHROEDER: Exactly. Say, would you two like to join Cami and me for dinner this evening? ABOUT 6: 00? We eat early. Oh, Win uh, you mentioned, uh... that I could talk to someone about putting up my basketball hoop? Who was that again? Mr. Gogolak, was it? (WIN SHROEDER forces a smile.)  You've got to love those dolphins ... although they're pretty tasty, too. 
 Actually, it was at a UFO conference.   Well, it's not me so much as Laura. She's quite the New-Ager. I mean, she's into those magnetic bracelets and crystals and mood rings, what have you. I mean, God bless her she's a sucker for all that stuff.  Yeah. You know, Win, uh, when you, uh... when you told me this morning that Big Mike was out of town on business ... I don't think that's true.  Mmm. No, 'cause we called his office, didn't we, Honey?  Yeah. 
 We're thinking about getting a dog so we wanted to call him and ask him his advice, whatever, and see if maybe his office had a forwarding number and they said, you know...  Yeah. 
 Mmm. It's got to be something really freaky-deaky, hunh? I mean, for him to lie about it like that? Maybe he's got some wild secret life going on. 
 But every community has its dark underbelly don't you think?  Scull...! 
 Tidying up. Whoever it was, they put away my basketball hoop. Somebody's looking out after us, Scully which may not be a bad thing. 
 I got a look at that thing that's been scaring everybody and I take it back. This is an X-File.  Here we go. Yeah...I'm guessing there's one of these in every yard. I think this is how this thing travels-- where it lives.   Always. 
 A landfill?  It does. Somehow, it's one and the same. The Klines?  What if they're still here  (pushes him into a chair) Let's start with the Klines. You're responsible for them being in little pieces in my front yard. You gave them that lawn ornament. The guy with the axe?  Yeah, whirligig. It's tacky enough to break your rules and your CCRs-- tacky enough to mark the Klines for death.  (considers for a moment, looks around, then picks up a black statuette) A tulpa. It's a Tibetan thought-form. It's a living, breathing creature willed into existence by someone who possesses that ability-- an ability I think you picked up on your whirligig-buying excursions to the Far East. Why'd you do it? I mean, is it so damn important for everybody to have the same color mailbox?  But you didn't know exactly what you were getting into, did you? I mean, you can summon its existence, but ... you can give it life, but you can't control it. The best you can hope for is to stay out of its way.  Scully? Scully? (As he gets closer to the bedroom, the carnage gets worse. He's really worried. He looks around at the broken furniture and pieces of filth and worse spread out everywhere. Eww.) Scully? (SCULLY pounds on the closet door.) Scully?  Scully, hang on. (MULDER pushes the dresser partially out of the way and begins helping her break the slats in the closet door. Outside, GENE GOGOLAK, still cuffed to the mailbox begins to look nervous and tries to get free.)SEPARATOR Mr. Dales, there's a reason that people don't head out into hurricanes.  Mr. Dales, can we come in?  She's my partner. 
  Yes, but she's... she's not the type that's easily persuaded.  Well, she knows your reputation your early work on the X-Files and she has a knack for getting to the bottom of things. 
 It was your description that caused Agent Scully's...  dubiousness.  She's missing, too?  It's not a night that anybody should be out in.  Hello! Mrs. Shipley!  Got the place all boarded up. It's from the inside. It makes you wonder how they got out.  There's something on the drainpipe. I can't get it off. (They look up quickly as the washing machine lid rises then falls again. They slowly walk toward it. SCULLY holds big flashlight as MULDER picks up a mop.) I don't know if I'm going to need my gun or a harpoon here. (MULDER cautiously approaches the washing machine and uses the stick to barely lift the lid. They both yelp as REGGIE THE CAT, very wet, leaps out of the machine and runs outside into the rain.) Maybe he was taking a dip... After he finished boarding up the windows. (They walk farther into the house and find a picture of the family and an interior door completely boarded up.) Must be the bathroom. Dales told me the wife told him that the... the husband was grabbed from the bathroom. (MULDER puts his flashlight in his mouth and begins pulling boards off the door.) (flashlight in his mouth) Can you give me a hand with this? (SCULLY puts her small flashlight in her mouth and begins helping MULDER. They are startled by DEPUTY GREER, a heavyset small town sheriff's deputy, who enters holding a gun on them. MULDER and SCULLY turn, hands in the air, flashlights still in their mouths. Very funny.) You can put the gun down. We're FBI.  We're out here like you. We're...  We're out here looking for the Shipleys, too.  Arthur Dales called us.  Does that name mean anything to you? Arthur Dales?  All right.  No, I'm not, but I'd like to.  No, no, no. Not before you help me finish what you interrupted.  Come on. (DEPUTY GREER and MULDER begin taking boards off the door.).(Later, SCULLY is outside in the car on her cell phone. She is speaking loudly to be heard over the storm.) No one in the bathroom. The deputy helped me pull off the plywood. There's no sign of anything except more of that slime in the bathtub and maybe three inches of water on the floor. It's weird. It's like somebody left the taps running before they boarded up the door.  Aren't you even curious what happened to these people?  Don't dismiss him so easily. He discovered the X-Files 40 years ago. He's seen things that I've only read about.  (in nature documentary narrator voice) If the sea is where life began-- where our ancestors first walked ashore-- then who's to say what new life may be developing in its uncharted depths.  (slight pout) Well, we should at least tell him that we're giving up... shouldn't we? (Helpless, SCULLY gives him a look.)(Inside the house, DEPUTY GREER continues to look around alone.) What's the problem, officer?   Thank you very much, sir. I appreciate the concern. 
 I was just one howdy do over the line. 
 The good thing about zero visibility, Scully? Can't get any worse.  Nance Road... N-A-N-C-E Road.  (ready to be out of the car) Not a moment too soon.  You know, Scully, someday we're going to look back on this and we're going to laugh. We'll just think of it as, uh... you know man pitted against the forces of nature. Think of it as a test of our mettle.  I think that was a-a tree branch. Debris is starting to fly.  We're not going to dodge any trees in a parked car. At least if we're driving, we're a moving target.  (looking out the window) There's somebody, I think who's about to give us directions. Who says there's never a cop when you need one? (MULDER pulls into the Breakers Condominium's parking lot beside DEPUTY GREER's flashing vehicle. They get out the car and enter the garage area.) : SCULLY: Mulder, isn't that... MULDER: Forrest Gump. [Closed captioning said: Yup. Sherlock's patrol car.](They enter the complex and find the manager's open door.) (to himself) I've heard of passing the time... Ouch. (SCULLY returns to her patient. She has his Leatherman and a ball point pen cap in her mouth.) Looks like he was attacked or stung. (looking at marks) What are those?  Whatever it was, I think it came through the plumbing, through the toilet.  If it's in the plumbing I got to make sure nobody else is in this building. (MULDER goes back out into the hall.) Excuse me, sir. Is everything okay in your apartment?  Do you need some help... with your television? (A few doors down the hall, WALTER SUAREZ comes out into the hall.) No. Do you need medical help?  Who's we? Who are you talking about?  You don't know this man, mister...?  Yeah. Everything in your pockets, too. (DOUGIE THE LOOTER carries the television back into the apartment.) Mulder. (MULDER enter the apartment and sees a VERY pregnant ANGELA VILLAREAL sitting on the couch. Lots of candles are on the table.) Stay there, Mrs. Suarez. We're going to make sure your baby makes it safely into the world.  Walter, Angela... I'm going to have to ask you to leave your apartment and come downstairs with me.  Right now, I just want to get you someplace where I know you'll be safe.  I don't know but it may have seriously injured a sheriff's deputy.  In the manager's apartment. It could be in the complex's plumbing now.  (to WALTER) Kid's going to be a fighter. (WALTER laughs nervously) Anybody else in the complex that you know of?  George?  He's going to want to listen to me.  It's for you. (Later, MULDER knocks at another door.) Mr. Vincent! George Vincent!  I'm a federal agent, Mr. Vincent. I'm asking you to open the door.  Mr. Vincent, your life may be in danger if you refuse to leave your apartment.  Well, that's great. But you may not be armed for what it is I'm talking about.  All the nuts roll down to Florida. (Inside manager's apartment. WALTER and ANGELA have joined SCULLY. SCULLY covers DEPUTY GREER with a blanket.) Scully, can I talk to you for a second?  We got to out of here as soon as possible.  We can put the deputy in his car and take him to the hospital.  You mean we're stuck here?  Well, either he's got no temperature or he's about to spontaneously combust.  Mr. Vincent? 
 Drop your weapon! Put it down!'  You didn't see it?  That looks like the four- inch tie-in to the second floor. Whatever it is didn't just rip through the ceiling. Looks like it ripped right through the pipe.  I don't know. It must still be in the building. It's probably in the outflow system.  Someone's already got him by the nugs.  Scully, that's how this thing is here. The hurricane is sitting offshore dredging up god knows what and this thing must have been driven into the city's reclamation system through some offshore outfall pipe. From there it gained access to the sewer pipes in this building.  Scully, something welled up out of the uncharted depths of the ocean-- something that had been lying there undiscovered for ages, probably.  He's gone.  No. He's gone. The deputy.  I think the deputy went out with the bathwater.  No, I don't think he was.  I'm sure she did. Look, Scully, I think I know why nobody's ever seen this thing before. It, it just doesn't live in water. It is water, taking shape only when it attacks, like it did when the hurricane backed seawater into the plumbing. Virtually unseeable until then.  Maybe you just impeded its reproductive process. Maybe it needs time to complete its cycle like it had with the Shipleys.  No, they were when they were attacked just like the deputy was here-- using their bodies to lay its own spawn-- using the body's water content to reproduce itself-- to make itself anew.  We got to get out of here.  We got to get to another building.  We can use the deputy's Prowler. How many people? We got two, four...  son of a bitch.  Yeah?   Oh, no.  She didn't save my life, really...  No. No no no no I-I saw the Shipley's cat.  I saw the cat, which had been saved which had been in the washing machine. And the Shipleys had boarded up their house which means that the only way they could have vanished was if the creature came up through the plumbing in a backwash of seawater seawater. And then the deputy who vanished from a bathtub full of Epsom salts. SEPARATOR I know. I missed the meeting.  What are you doing down here?   I'm having the best damn day of my life. Any moment I'm about to burst into song-- "Zip a dee doo dah." My, uh, waterbed sprung a leak and shorted out my alarm clock.  My cell phone got wet and crapped out on me and the check I wrote my landlord to cover the, uh, damages is going to bounce if I don't deposit my pay. You ever have one of those days, Scully? 
 Bank's just down the street. I'll be back in ten. Cover for me, will you? 
  You're the boss. 
  It's all right.   Zip a dee doo dah. 
  Hey, lock the doors. You forgot to lock the front door. SEPARATOR  I am home. I'm just feathering the nest.  Two merchant marines found dead this morning in San Pedro in the hold of their cargo ship.   On the crime report it says multiple bite wounds.  The Hong Kong manifest has the cargo listed as a dog.  Yo quiero Taco Bell. That alone is not what drew me to this case.  The two men were found inside the container. It was locked from the outside.   Dog gone. Dog gone  Doggone.  Local PD wrote it up. Department of Fish and Wildlife is on the case. I got an outside source says it was a dog.  Yeah.  Mm-hmm.  A bad dog.   Watch your step.  Talk about biting the hand that feeds you.  If all the doors were shut, how did it get out?  I think we're speaking in too common terms about an animal we're calling a dog but which displays none of the behavior of man's best friend.   You get a biscuit, Scully.  With a human that thinks like an animal. Karin? Karin Berquist?  No, it's actually more of a behavior problem.   Just... can you tell her the FBI's here to see her?  Karin Berquist knows more about canine behaviorisms than anybody on the planet. She's lived with wild canids and wolves in the wilderness on five different continents.   I never actually met her.  No, actually, it's not an assumption. She is the one who told me about his case.  Well, I've read her books.  She's not a real people person. 
 Karin, I'm Fox. Fox Mulder. This is my partner, Dana Scully. It's nice to finally meet you.   Yeah, it's about the animal I'm tracking. The one you mentioned in your e-mail - about its intelligence.  What about hunting?  No. Thank you, Karin.  We met on-line.  Two professionals exchanging information. No, I'm sure it doesn't. We're just trying to catch this animal just like you though, sir.  I didn't expect you.   Mm-hmm.  Mm-hmm.  That's okay.  You said that a dog or a canid only hunts what it needs but I've got four bodies with bite marks on it from an animal that seems to kill for no other reason.  There's two men on the ship that it came in on, a customs agent, and now an officer from Fish and Wildlife. In fact, all these men could have come in contact with the animal before the attacks.  No. This animal seems to have ranged many miles to make its attacks. In each case it seems to have outsmarted or at least tricked its victims.  This guy over here? He claims to have caught it once. Maybe he can catch it again. He's Dr. Ian Detweiler. Do you know him?  But it's still on the loose.  Oh, this is Karin Berquist.  Mm-hmm. 
 Uh, he's got a vestigial toe pad on his front paws. Right there. 
 Everything okay, Scully?  How well do you know anybody you meet on the Internet? She likes to talk.  You're suggesting that this case was a way to get me out here, to meet me? 
 I'm flattered, but, no. I don't know this woman. I'd go out on a limb and say there's no way in hell she has anything to do with those four people being dead.  How's that?  What kind of pet?  Yeah?  What are you doing here?  How did you learn about the attack?  No, you didn't. No, you hadn't. Officer Cahn didn't want to have anything to do with you.  Does that frighten you?   You aren't hunting this animal. You know very well it can't be caught.  That's what no one can figure out except for Karin Berquist. She knows what was in that cage and she knows it must be killed and that's the thought she can't bear because she doesn't want this thing to be extinct anymore than you do.  No, I think I am. You went to China looking for that animal and you may have tracked it as you claim but the rest is far from the truth. You found the Wanshang Dhole, but you never caught it. It caught you. You may not have known what was happening to you at first but you're well aware now-- that when night comes, you stop being yourself.  No, you become the trickster-- a shape-shifting man who becomes an animal.   No. You killed because you could. You may have resisted it at first. You may have hated what you'd become. Eventually it took you over. That's where the tranquilizer came in. I found traces of Etorphine and animal blood at the clinic. You injected yourself with the tranquilizer hoping to stop the killings... But they didn't and they haven't and they won't. 
 I'm sensing something myself here. I'm thinking maybe I've been misled, that you haven't been totally honest with me about this case.  But you might also have admitted what you knew about this animal-- that it wasn't an animal at all.  It's Detweiler, isn't it?  So you knew that and didn't say.  I've got Scully on him, tailing him watching his every move.  So, where's he going to go?   Scully, it's me. You got to get to the hospital. You got to make sure Cahn is protected. Yeah, he's in danger. 
  That's aptly put... but it's not yet dark. You should take a load off. We might be here all night.  It's Detweiler... but it's not Detweiler. It's something that he becomes.  Through some blood curse, this man undergoes some kind of nocturnal transformation. He becomes the same shape-shifting trickster as that mythical dog.  It's about territoriality. He's going to come back here tonight to make sure his dominance isn't challenged. He's going to put down the threat he failed to eliminate when he attacked Cahn. Karin Berquist confirmed it.  He'll come here tonight, Scully. You'll see. 
  Yeah, pretty soon.   I think that I... believed her very quickly. I think maybe that was my fault, yeah. 
 I barely knew her.   Uh, yeah.  Thank you. 
SEPARATOR Yes, we should... but not for this. Now this is, uh, Raybert Fellowes superintendent of Road Farm Six, Mississippi Department of Corrections. One of his guards found him in his office. Not a drop of blood in the place. 
 No, I don't think so. Whoever did it took 40 minutes to do it in the middle of a tornado. What do you make of that?   There's, um... no acid found in his office.   Scully...!  I don't have a theory. But I know of someone who does. An inmate.  Rawls was the prisoner who supposedly died in the tornado that preceded superintendent Fellowes's murder.   I disagree. I think this Pinker Rawls is still very much alive. You know, they never found his body.   I can't argue with that. But I do think it's murder.   Termites? 
 Well, it's not in here. Hey. Look at this. 
  Ouch.  I wonder who she is. 
 Is that the guy?  How'd he get away? 
  You had him handcuffed... here. Can I see your handcuffs? 
 We have a last known address for Pinker Rawls? This is Rawls's last known address. Security guard's car. 
  Ugh!  Ugh. Gesundheit.  Don't recognize him from his driver's license, do you?  Yeah, but Rawls used to live here and he's come back looking for something.  I don't think he spent that in prison.  Maybe she knows. That's this house, isn't it?  Yeah.  Yeah, I bet Rawls is looking for her.  Maybe she changed her name. Maybe she was afraid she'd end up like that. 
 You might warn them not to shoot to kill. He seems to find that annoying.  They are. It's just that their composition has been changed just like the handcuffs and just like the prison wall.  I think they just went right through him, - whsssht - like his wrist went through the handcuffs and like he walked right through that prison wall.  Changing their composition fundamentally-- making steel brittle, turning lead bullets into powder.  I don't know how else to explain what happened to that prison superintendent or to poor Mr. Merkle over there, who's got no face anymore.   I'm not saying that it can't be explained scientifically. Maybe it's the tornado. You suggested it yourself. Unusual climatic conditions... high electrical potential...  Okay, we both agree on who he's looking for?  And do we have any idea of how to find June Gurwitch?  Where'd he go?  Bo Merkle's car is parked down the street. That's how he got here. I don't know how he left.  Why would he leave without getting the information he wanted?  (getting in the car with her) Where to?  June? 
 Who is Rawls to you?  What does Rawls want? The money? $90,000 from the Bay Saint Louis robbery?  And where's the money now?   Give me your keys. 
 Get her out of here. I want a guard on her at all times. 
 Yeah. And we took him right where he wanted to go. 
 You think he's trying to tell us something? 
 Scully, look at this. I'm assuming Rawls wrote this with his finger just like the other one. Look here.  Or the mirror stopped him. What makes an object solid, Scully? I mean, what, what prevents one solid object from passing through another solid object, usually?  Electrons. What if Rawls's ability somehow has to do electricity? What would preclude it or contain it?  Exactly. Rawls couldn't pass through this.   It's not about the money. It's never been about the money.  Pregnancy.  This is seven years ago. That's just a few months after Rawls was sent to a prison farm.  Where are they headed?  Yeah, we got to get there first.   I'm going to need some equipment. Special issue.  It was a live birth-- that's all you can tell me? Yeah, can you check on that, please?  Yes. Thank you. 
  Riot slugs-- rubber.  Uh-huh. Yeah. No. Thank you.  It's a boy. That's all I got.  No official files. No adoption records, no records of foster care in Alabama, Mississippi, Louisiana, nothing. SEPARATOR It came here for me?   I don't think it's the killer, Scully.   I see it has a burning heart. But we're dealing with a killer that leaves absolutely no clues. Why would he do something as heavy-handed as this?  Maybe it's not me at all. Maybe he sent it to you. Maybe it's a secret admirer. 
  Hey, you weren't joking about being late. I was about to start slicing and dicing, myself.  Where were you?  For what?  No, I think I was wrong. I think it's very significant. I think it may be a communication from the killer. Most of my research shows that most credible practitioners of psychic surgery believe themselves to be imbued with the Holy Spirit-- that their hands become the miracle tools of God.  Who, the writer?  You're kidding.  Is he our killer? SCULLY: No. "Frightening" as in too much information and intimate detail. What kills you is his audacity. MULDER: Did you get his name? Yeah, it's how you found your victims-- in the personals. They all took out personal ads.  And you targeted them.  No, you targeted... 
 Then this is your confession? 
 It's all in there-- every detail, every murder, all laid out. How'd you do it, Mr. Padgett?  The murders.  How about "the stranger"? Is that you? How about Ken Naciamento?  Is that your accomplice?  Did you direct him to do it?   Which is the truth?  Why, Mr. Padgett? Maybe that's a question you can answer.  Maybe if it were fiction. 
 To find his accomplice, the Brazilian psychic surgeon.  Where is he now?  He can't be.  Padgett couldn't have done this alone.  Scully, it's all on the page. How else would he know it?  No one can predict human behavior. No one can tell you what another person's going to do.  If he imagines it, it's a priori-- before the fact. I think that's pretty clear from what he wrote about you. 
 You know you're in here, don't you?   Well, let's just say it ends with you doing the naked pretzel with "the stranger" on a bed in an unfurnished fourth floor apartment.  I'm assuming that's a priori, too?  Mmmm.  Well, you might want to finish it. 

 No signs of a possible struggle at the grave site but the area's been so trammeled by the funeral that collecting evidence is going to be virtually impossible. I think this is a big jerk off.  The only thing that he imagined was us out here... 
 ...looking like idiots. 
 Hands where I can see 'em! Don't move until I tell you! I'm a federal agent. 
  The truck. Check the truck, Scully.   I imagined it.  What do you need, a signed work order? Of course he directed him.  You're about to argue my usual side, aren't you?  You read his book. You read what he wrote about you. Are you trying to tell me that he got inside your head? That what I read is true?  I don't know how they communicate. This is the only way I can think to catch him. 
  Mr. Padgett... you can go. We apologize for our mistake. You're free to finish your book.  What's that, Mr. Padgett?  Anything?  What's he up to now?  Now what?  Anything? 
 Padgett! Freeze. Step away from the incinerator. 

 What do you think you're doing?  Destroying evidence, you mean. Let me see what you wrote.  You came down here to give these instructions to your accomplice?  When?  You were alone up there. 

SEPARATORSEPARATOR  I have seen the life on this planet, Scully and that is exactly why I am looking elsewhere. 
 Did you bring enough ice cream to share with the rest of the class?   Ugh. Bet the air in my mouth tastes better than that. You sure know how to live it up, Scully.  Looking for anomalies, Scully. Do you know how many so-called "flying disc" reports there were in New Mexico in the 1940s?  No, I won't sit idly by as you hurl cliches at me. Preparation is the father of inspiration.  The road of excess leads to the palace of wisdom.  I scream, you scream, we all scream for nonfat tofutti rice dreamsicles. 
 Reading the box scores, Scully. You'd like it. It's like the Pythagorean Theorem for jocks. It distills all the chaos and action of any game in the history of all baseball games into one tiny, perfect, rectangular sequence of numbers. I can look at this box and I can recreate exactly what happened on some sunny summer day back in 1947. It's like the numbers talk to me, they comfort me. They tell me that even though lots of things can change some things do remain the same. It's...  Of course not.   Is that Arthur... Dales...   Ah... Choo! 
 I'm-I'm sorry, sir, I'm-I'm looking for Arthur Dales.  No, you're not.  No, I-I'm sorry, sir, I know Arthur Dales and you're not Arthur Dales.  How do you know my name?  Mr. Dales, I have a, uh... I have a photo here of your brother. Maybe it's you. It's from many years ago and you're, you're standing in Roswell, New Mexico.  Okay, and you're standing with Negro League legend Josh Exley who disappeared without a trace during a season in which he reportedly hit 60 home runs.  61 home runs in 1948.  '47, whatever. I don't really care about the baseball, so much, sir. What I care about is this man in the picture with you. I believe to be an alien bounty hunter.  Wait a minute. I like baseball.  Yeah.   A hundred and sixty-three. 
 Righty. 373 lefty. 536 total. 
 Yes, sir, that may be true. I'm thinking that your experience in Roswell could be germane to a conspiracy between men in our government and these shape-shifting alien beings.   I guess... women change men all the time.  What exactly has your brother told you about me? 
 Mr. Dales, if you and your brother have really known about this bounty hunter and plans for colonization for the last 50 years why the hell wouldn't you have told anybody?  I would have believed you.  What is this?   You're making me feel like a child.  I've got to give it to you, Arthur. Calling a Negro league team from Roswell the Grays is pretty clever. E.T. steal home. E.T. steal home. 
 You seriously want me to believe that Josh Exley maybe one of the greatest ballplayers of all times, was an alien?   Babe Ruth was an alien?   Joe DiMaggio?  Willie Mays?  Mantle? Koufax? Gibson?   So I assume you're speaking metaphorically?  You're also implying that this baseball-playing alien has something to do with the famous Roswell UFO crash of July '47, aren't you?  (after a pause) Drift it is, sir.  Okay, so was Ex a man who was metaphorically an alien or an alien who was metaphorically a man or a something in between that was literally an alien-human hybrid? (ARTHUR DALES frowns, then hands MULDER a pint of liquor.) It's official. I am a horse's ass. (They both take a drink.) Well, I have noticed over the course of time, a man and his dog will often start to look like one another. ARTHUR DALES: Of course not. To be a man is to have the heart of a man. Integrity, decency, sympathy: these are the things that make a man a man and Ex had them all had them all, more than you or I.(The TV is on Channel Six. There is a weather warning on the bottom of the screen. Someone is opening the trunk of a car with New York plates. It is the scene from Colony - season 2 - a man opens a trunk, looks at his own dead body lying inside and morphs into the ALIEN BOUNTY HUNTER. He looks in the trunk, then as the picture goes from black and white to color You've never hit a baseball, have you, Scully?  Get over here, Scully. 
 This ain't cheap. I'm paying that kid ten bucks an hour to shag balls. 
 Hey, it's not a bad piece of ash, huh? 
 The bat-talking about the bat. Now, don't strangle it. You just want to shake hands with it. "Hello, Mr. Bat. It's a pleasure to make your acquaintance." "Oh, no, no, Ms. Scully. The pleasure's all mine." 
 Okay, now, we want to... we want to go hips before hands, okay?  We want to stride forward and turn. That's all we're thinking about. So, we go hips... before hands, all right? 
 One more time. 
 Hips... before hands, all right?  What is it?   Right. We're going to wait on the pitch. We're going to keep our eye on the ball. Then, we're just going to make contact. We're not going to think. We're just going to let it fly, Scully, okay?  Ready? 
 All right, fire away, Poorboy. 
 Ooh! That's good. All right, what you may find is you concentrate on hitting that little ball... The rest of the world just fades away-- all your everyday, nagging concerns. 
 The ticking of your biological clock. 
 How you probably couldn't afford that nice, new suede coat on a G-Woman's salary. 
 How you threw away a promising career in medicine...  to hunt aliens with a crackpot, albeit brilliant, partner. 
 Getting into the heart of a global conspiracy. Your obscenely overdue triple-X bill. Oh, I... I'm sorry, Scully. Those last two problems are mine, not yours. 
SEPARATOR Oh. Ugh. I don't know what they did with the screen for this thing. Now, this is Angela and Wallace Schiff. It's a young married couple last seen hiking in the vicinity of Brown Mountain, North Carolina. That's Angie on the right. I should add that this is the condition in which their bodies were found after being missing for only three days... in temperatures that never got above 70 degrees.   Not to mention that these skeletons are not wearing any clothes.  That's a pretty big operation you're describing. There was no evidence found at the scene-- no tire tracks, no footprints, nothing.  It's Brown Mountain, Scully. That doesn't ring a bell?  The Brown Mountain lights? It's a famous atmospheric phenomenon dating back nearly 700 years witnessed by thousands of people-- back to the Cherokee Indians. Strange multicolored lights are seen to dance above the peak of the mountain. There's been no geological explanation, no scientific credible explanation at all.   As I said, there's been no scientific credible explanation but there are those of us who believe these strange multicolored lights are really...   Sounds like crap when you say it. I'm just wondering if there's a connection, Scully. I mean, the conditions of these bodies are reminiscent of certain southwestern cattle mutilations. Those are cases where there's no physical evidence and they've long been associated with UFO activity.  Scully, in six years, how... how often have I been wrong?  No, seriously. I mean, every time I bring you a case we go through this perfunctory dance. You tell me I'm not being scientifically rigorous and that I'm off my nut, and then in the end who turns out to be right like 98.9% of the time? I just think I've... earned the benefit of the doubt here. 
 They're gone.  They should have. Maybe they came for something else.  Angie, can you talk to me? Do you remember what happened? Can you tell me?  You were with your husband. With Wallace.  Where was that light coming from? From the mountain?  And then what happened?  This... this place that they took you to can you describe it to me tell me what it looked like?  Were there men there?  Did they perform tests on you?  You have a, uh... you have a scar back here on the back of your neck.  It's fresh.  It's an implant. I've seen this before.  No, male abductees don't usually report this. And everything she says so far is textbook down to the last detail, except for one.  Two skeletons we found were identified as yours and Angie's? I don't understand that. It doesn't make sense to me.  I had that thought but there's no precedent for it. It's in none of the literature.  We got to get out of here right now.  We're leaving now. Gather your things. Angie, I'll help you up.  No!  Scully. 
 We've contacted Fish and Wildlife. We've contacted the North Carolina State Health Department as well as the local FBI field office in Raleigh. And we've contacted a mycologist at the Smithsonian for good measure. We think we have our bases covered.  I'm just thinking... I'm not exactly clear on how we escaped.  (to SCULLY) Once you recognized that we were under a chemical influence then it simply kind of... broke its spell?  Scully, how could we simply will ourselves out of a chemical hallucination?  Did we? Can you name me one drug that loses its effect once the user realizes it's in his system?  Scully, how long were we underground? Hours? Half a day? How come our bodies don't show any effects of being burned by the digestive fluids? We were covered in hydrochloric acid. Yet look at our skin. Nothing. (SCULLY looks at her hands.) Scully... we never escaped. We're still trapped underground.  No, I'm not. This is not real. (to SKINNER) You, you're not real.  I'll prove it, Scully. (MULDER stands and pulls out his gun.)SEPARATOR Both men espouse a fringe theory called "Panspermia." It's the belief that life originated...  Dr. Sandoz, the man he'd come to meet made a similar claim in a  "science" ... journal. He said he'd found an artifact that was almost identical to that with similar writings on it.  Well, we'd have to ask Dr. Sandoz that.  We can't. He's missing. 
 Skinner wants us on the case.  I am just a hired gun for the FBI.  What if there's something to this?  That's what we're being asked to figure out. 
  No.   No... I couldn't hear it. 
 My sister. 
 Fox Mulder with the FBI.  Any ideas yourself about what happened here?  About the missing Dr. Sandoz?  I don't know. It's, uh... a hollow noise. The same thing that happened to me at work in the elevator this morning. 
 No. This is going to sound weird but I think it's that thing.  I'm sorry. I thought this was my office. 
 You don't believe it, Chuck?  Noise. Aural dissonance. It comes and it goes.  No, but it was a few minutes ago.  Why?  Suspicious of what?  Yeah. It has to do with the occult.  That's what this thing is?  How do you know that?  Does he back any of that up?  Yeah, but wouldn't it be in his great interest to hide something that he couldn't disprove with his scholarship?  In 1996, a rock from Mars was found in Antarctica. How did it get there?  Hmm.  No, no, it's going away.  No, I'm okay. I really am.  I'm not going home to bed, Scully. I think I know what's causing this and I know what happened to those two professors and that artifact. I got a sense of it yesterday when I met that man Barnes.  Yes. This man Solomon Merkmallen is dead. Barnes knows it. He killed him-- killed him in that lab.  No, I'm not... not until after I show you what he did with the body. 
 We'll let you know if we find it.  Whatever happened to Dr. Sandoz, he certainly liked to fly south for the winter-- a lot. Gallup, New Mexico. It's Navaho country.  That's Albert Hosteen.  Maybe he was using him to read the symbols on the artifact.  Scully, you packing any latex?  Doesn't it smell like somebody forgot to take out the garbage? 
 He's afraid for his life because of what he knows and what he has..  A genuine artifact-- one of several pieces of an unknown whole. Dr. Barnes has one now, too. That's why he killed Solomon Merkmallen.  was to incriminate Sandoz, to make him look like the killer. It's also to hide something. Something that no one would think to look for.  Scully, could you please tell... what your medical exam found in the lab report?  All of which would retain telltale traces of radiation.  The artifact.  Cosmic Galactic Radiation. It's a kind of radiation that's found only outside our solar system.  Oh, forget the arrest. We got to find these artifacts. 
 Is there someone else on this case, sir?   There's someone else on this case-- you're not telling me.  I hear it... in my head.  No, I'm not. Listen to me-- he's not telling the truth. I'm hearing people. He's spying on us.  I need to find those artifacts. 