 my sister? is she here?  that's really going to cut into my social life. 
 during my fever, i... i left here and traveled to a place.  it wasn't a dream?  i have been on the bridge that spans two worlds, the link between all souls by which we cross into our own true nature. you were here today, looking for truth that was taken from you, a truth that was never to be spoken but which now binds us together in dangerous purpose. i have returned from the dead to continue with you... but i fear that this danger is now close at hand... that i may be too late. 
 mom?  i need your help, mom, but i don't have much time. 
 i'm okay but i need your help. i need you to remember. 
 i need to know more about dad. who these people are.
 i need you to try and remember, mom. these pictures were taken in 1972. where? 
 dad was working for the state department, he'd go on the road. where would he go?  will you look at the pictures, mom?  just look at them!  now, he must have talked about his work, about the men he worked with. did he ever bring them home? were they ever here?  i think it has to do with samantha. i think it has to do with what happened to my sister.
separator drop your weapon! i said...  i said put it down!  you okay, scully?  get his gun. give her the gun. give it to her! now, i want an explanation. 
 your cigarette-smoking friend killed my father for that tape, and then he killed me.  i was a dead man. now, i'm back.  defense department files that weren't supposed to exist. the truth about our government's involvement in a global conspiracy of silence about the existence of extraterrestrial life. 
 give her the tape.  then you better make sure it doesn't. come on, scully, let's go. there are truths out there that aren't on that tape. 
 scully, whatever you're going to say...  how did you know? 
 that's my father on the left there.  about 1973.  our deal with the devil. the u.s. government provided safe haven for certain nazi war criminals in exchange for their scientific knowledge. 
 i don't know. do you recognize anybody else in the photograph? 
 you're going to have to wait a little longer for my video collection, frohike.  scully... scully, wait. scully! scully, wait! scully!
 you can't go.  if they're trying to kill you, that's the first place they're going to look.  we're going to call someone i think can help. it's the only thing you can do for her right now is try to crucify them. victor klemper?  my name is fox mulder, this is dana scully.  yes. i think you knew my father.  when you came to this country, you did some work for our government.  like my father. they killed him and i believe you know why.  well, what is this "work" that my father was involved in?  well, you knew him! was he a murderer too? (he hands klemper the photograph.) no, i need to know! i need to know the truth! isn't that what you want? for the truth to be known?  let's go, scully. (he starts off. she glares at him for a long time, deep contempt in her eyes. he smiles and she feels a little remorse. the agents walk out.) i don't know. he never came home wearing a miner's cap.  i'd like to try door number one, monty. i'm trying two-seven-eight-two-eight, it's not working.
 sure that's the right number?  i think with a crowbar and a small nuclear device, i might be able to get through one of these things. 
 i'm okay, scully...  you'd be surprised what's not on the map in this country and what our government will do to keep it that way.  last night, we were chased by some kind of hit squad driving what looked an awful lot like c.i.a. fleet sedans. 
 no, sir. i need that tape. i need those files.  and i'm talking about an elaborate conspiracy against the american public. do you know what we found last night?  locked inside a mountain vault.  i don't know. but the answer's got to be on that tape, in those files.  it's obviously worth killing us for.  why they killed my father... and what happened to my sister... and what they did to agent scully.  what makes you think there's any such thing as justice, scully?  what we found last night...  i suppose you already tried to make a backup of the tape.  what makes you think they'll even honor this deal?  it's up to you, scully. 
 i'm sorry about your sister, scully.  yeah.  it's after two.  i needed to see you in person. i need to ask you something. i need to ask you about something that happened a long time ago.  mom, listen to me. when samantha... before she was gone, did dad ever ask you if you had a favorite? did he ever ask you that?  mom, did he ever ask you to make a choice?  mom, listen to me! i need to know! did he make you make a choice? 
 oh, she knows. melissa knows. 
 i don't think this is about justice, scully.  i think it's about something we have no personal choice in. i think it's about fate. skinner told me that he talked to you, that you were insistent about coming back to work. now, if melissa's death is... i feel the same way. we've both lost so much... but i believe that what we're looking for is in the x-files. i'm more certain than ever that the truth is in there. separator probably?  it looks like his heart was cooked right in his chest.  lightning.   why? you were doing just fine.  i just dont think its lightning. 
 i dont know yet.   none of the evidence so far indicates either of those possibilities.  so tellers explanation works for you?  well, then this local lightening is a lot more predictable than teller realizes. it seems to have a definite preference for the type of person it strikes.  well, look at the files, look at all the other victims, theyre all male age 17 to 21, just like jack hammond. at least lets go see where jack hammond was killed. maybe well find something we both can agree on. looks like he was trying to get away in a big hurry.  what time was jack hammonds last pizza delivery? scully:  sometime between 11:00 and 11:30. why? mulder: all these stores would have been closed by 11:00 except maybe this one.
 look, scully, take a look at this.  what were the names of the other victims?   darren oswald. whats his middle name?   dpo. darren peter oswald. of the five victims wasnt he the only one to survive?  well, he was here last night. they say he was struck by lightning.  right outside the video arcade. not a cloud in the sky from what we can tell. you were there last night, werent you? broke your own record too.  you must have seen something.  can i ask you a personal question?  do you consider yourself a lucky person?  yeah.  im just thinking about all the people that got hit by lightning, youre the only one to survive. dont you think youre lucky?  yeah?  i dont know.  it just got hot all of a sudden.   thanks for your help.  lightning.  the schuman resonance. eight cycles per second. you can pick it up on any transistor radio.  you see that, sheriff? i did my homework.   oh, thats certainly the way it looks.  looks like a fulgurite. that only happens with lightning when sandy soil fuses into glass from the heat of a discharge.  that were wasting our time chasing lightning?  i dont know yet.  this is the first lightning strike ive ever seen that left behind a footprint. 
 thats great. now can you make me a little cherub that squirts water?   8? thats pretty impressive, scully.   oooo.   what is it?  darren oswald.  i dont know, scully, but lets go see if the shoe fits. can we have a few minutes, mrs. oswald?  thank you. 
 yeah?   eight ?   oh, i have. april is the cruelest month. but mine didnt come with this. i found that between miss april and "women of the ivy league."   i dont know, but it looks like its from some kind of yearbook photo, see? 
 kiveat the garage where darren works is called kiveat auto body. 
 let me give you a hand with that.  mrs. kiveat? my name is fox mulder. im with the fbi. i know this is a hard time but id like to ask you some questions.  yes. 
 id like to ask you about darren oswald. he was at the scene of the accident, wasnt he?  why?  how did he explain this?  ive been going over oswalds chart. theres something i want you to take a look at.  yeah. what is that?  electrolytes, right?  and what do electrolytes do?  okay, its a leap, scully, but what if oswalds electrolyte imbalance is somehow enabling him to generate electricity at levels much higher than normal?  unless his body is abnormally conductive. because if that heel print is oswalds, that means he conducted millions of volts of electricity into the ground and then just walked away.  no, im saying that he *is* lightning and weve got to get to him before he strikes again. 
 darren. darren! darren    relax, darren.  what did he say?  how did he say he revived kiveat?   i dont think he just resuscitated frank kiveat, scully. i think he set the whole thing up.  did you see what he did to my phone?  i think we should run a full set of lab tests on this kid, scully.  i can think of only one other person that might be able to help us. mrs. kiveat.  darren oswalds in custody, mrs. kiveat. we arrested him this afternoon. but we cant press criminal charges without your help.  when did you first suspect that darren was involved in something more than prank calls?  he actually confessed to killing those people?  when was this?  jack hammond?  did you tell anyone?  wheres oswald?  you released him? when?  ill go call sharon kiveat.   mrs. kiveats not home.   excuse me, miss? call security. have them deny entry to the hospital to everyone except emergency personnel. 
 darren oswald. he was released from custody.  ill stay with him. go with agent scully.  hes here. 
  stay with them.  im going after oswald. 
  teller, get out of there!   lightning? what about the scientists at the observatory? what do they have to say?  what about the tests i asked for?  and?  darren oswald is a perfectly normal, perfectly healthy kid. you believe that, scully?  neither do i. 
separator i'm agent mulder. this is agent scully.
 satanists take the eyeballs and leave the body, not vice-versa. not in anything but modern myths.  anthropomancy. it was once believed that you could divine your future by vivisecting a human being and studying the entrails. 
 and an amateur tasseographer. she read tea leaves. after drinking the tea, you can gain insight into your future by examining the pattern of the leaves on the bottom of the cup. i'm not convinced of its accuracy but i'm pretty sure the victim was.  her leaves were telling her she was about to be murdered. 
 i'm part of this investigation.  i can assure you, mister yappi, i'm a believer in psychic ability.  mister yappi, read this thought. 
 well, let me impress you with my psychic ability. mister yappi proclaimed the victim's body would be found near water, he saw a church or a school in the vicinity, he got a flash of the letter "s" and/or the number "seven."  well, his leads are so vague as to be practically useless yet easily interpreted to be correct after the fact. 
 yeah, and some are bound by percentages to be right but most will turn out wrong. now, which is which?  oooh, i just got a chill down my spine. 
 how had the eyes been cut out?  we did find some crystal shards on the body, how do you know it was from a crystal ball? 
 mister bruckman? sorry, mister bruckman, but i'm going to have to ask you to come with us. 
 step inside, mister bruckman.  a murder occurred here earlier this evening and we have reason to believe that it was committed by the same person who murdered the woman that you found. is there anything you can tell us about it? you're not under suspicion... but i do harbor a suspicion that you can see things about this crime... things that we can't see.  i think you do.  pinch me.  no, something told me, scully, something is telling me this guy's for real.  can you describe him? do you get a visual impression of him? 
 what is it? what do you see?  then what's wrong?  mister bruckman, can you tell us why the killer is murdering people in the way that he is?  be honest, scully. doesn't that propane tank bear more than just a slight resemblance to a fat, little, white nazi stormtrooper? 
 did you answer my question? 
 he named the specific body of water the victim would be found in.  i don't believe he's the killer.  well, if he's not, then how did he know where the body would be found?  everything you said is correct. (bruckman looks up at him.) but you do admit to having this gift.  mister bruckman, you possess an ability that not only has staggering implications upon physics and human consciousness, but it's one which most people, myself included, would be envious of. yet you seem to treat it with disdain.  y, yes, i would. (bruckman laughs a little and smirks.) mister bruckman, this murderer has already committed four homicides.  how can you be so sure?  then if the future is written, then why bother to do anything?  mister bruckman, i believe in your ability but not your attitude. (he sits down.)i can't stand by and watch people die without doing everything in my, albeit unsupernatural, power to interfere with that fate. that's a hit. in psychical research parlance, a correct answer's a "hit," an incorrect answer's a "miss."  i have no way of verifying that information.  do you receive any other impressions from it? 
 i'm now convinced of our psychic's abilities, scully, or rather, his one ability. he is able to divine how people are going to die but that's all. he can't provide any practical information on our case.  miss.  save me the headache, scully, what is it?  is that a hit or a miss?  you got all that information just by handling that keychain?  how are you receiving this information about the body's location?  i mean, are you seeing it in a vision or is it a... sensation? how do you know where to go?  but how do you know?  why are you telling me that?  do you remember the first time you foresaw someone's death?  what happened in 1959?  i'm not following. 
 i'm still not following.  yeah, mister bruckman, i don't understand how you can know that this is the exact area, but you can't pinpoint the exact spot. 
 okay, now. i'm glad i could bring a little smile into your life, mister bruckman. the only evidence recovered from claude dukenfield's body. that fiber may have come from something the killer was wearing at the time of the crime. 
 but it'll take them time to provide any information. a similar fiber was found on one of the earlier victims and we're still waiting for the lab to determine it's source. you'd be saving us a great deal of work.  mister bruckman... i can't speak for my partner but i'm desperate... for some insurance.  is he?  like what? what does he see? 
 where does this take place? 
 well, why don't i see him, what am i doing? 
 what?  whatever, please continue. 
 all right, i'm looking down at this banana cream pie and then what... 
 and? and, what does he see?  you got all that from this?  "to whom it may concern. like our lives, this is a mere formality to let you know i know that you know. can't wait till our first meeting when i kill you. not before you explain some things to me. first on the list, why in the world did i send you this letter? sincerely, you know who. p.s., say 'hi' to the f.b.i. agents." 
 no, no, this letter is postmarked the day before mister bruckman joined our investigation. you're going to have to come with us, mister bruckman. we're got to get you out of here.  get this, scully. the lab analysis from the first bit of fiber that was found just came back. it's lace.  you know what i like.  but what are the odds of the big bopper, "chantilly lace..."  if coincidences are just coincidences, why do they feel so contrived?  am i keeping you awake?  well, i've had dreams in my life where i had a vision and then later on, i've seen that vision in reality and then... and as a psychic, have you ever had prophetic dreams like that?  no, no, i'm not a freudian, no.  oh, yeah. i just didn't sleep well. what's up?  i'm beginning to lose patience with our psychic, scully. what good are his prophecies if they're not preventive?  so, you're convinced he's a psychic now?  now, we've either got a copycat killer or our guy's getting extremely lackadaisical.  if my miss manners serves me right, that protrusion from his left cornea is a salad fork.  ah, we've got more than that this time, scully. we've got fingerprints, probably a footprint even. 
 woman's intuition. 
 hey! 
 how'd you know where to find us?  thank heaven for happenstance.  then bruckman is all right?  well, then where is he? "miss scully." 
separator napoleon "neech" manley. he was convicted in 1984 for double murder in the holdup of a florida liquor store. the actual gunman was killed in the pursuit. manley was driving the getaway car and got sentenced to death.  yeah, he'd been to the chair twice before but the governor had granted him last-minute stays.  well, manley was interesting. he was well-read, charismatic. he became a writer, a kind of prison philosopher. a week before his execution, word went through the prison that neech said he was gonna be reincarnated. he was gonna come back from the dead.  apparently, this was more than just a dying man's hope against hope.  manley didn't just claim that he was gonna come back but that he was gonna take vengeance on five men who had mistreated him. 
 yesterday, a death row guard was found dead inside the cell that manley had occupied those 11 years. his death cannot be explained. 
 any idea how one of your guards could get murdered in an empty cell like this?  according to our reports, there were threats this might happen.  do you give any credence to neech manley's claims that he was gonna come back and take revenge?  so you're saying that manley planned this and is carrying it out with the help of someone else.  did manley have many friends among the prisoners?  i've been told you believe neech manley's claims.  what are you saying, speranza? you believe manley killed that guard?  a prisoner waits for an opportunity ...  yeah, but you've got prisoners on work detail. trustees - a man slips away.  why?  reincarnated.  into what form?  any idea how he did it?  yeah, fine. 
 okay. i'll be right there. 
 what's wrong, scully?  i hear you have a list.  guard? 
 how did you come by this list you claim to have?  how many names are on the list?  so you knew those two guards were gonna be murdered?  who do you think killed them?  you want to make some kind of deal, huh?  why? are you on the list?  well, what if they don't give you what you want?  you don't have the authority?  yeah. 
 listen to this. "i come in return to the beginning of the end to begin again the journey of souls ... the godhead universal for whom there is no death only life eternal."  neech manley, 1994. this stuff goes on for hundreds of pages. there's references to the hindu atman, prarabdha, the rosicrucians, zoroastrianism. the man was obsessed with reincarnation.  unless he knew something we don't.  every major world religion encompasses the idea of life after death. that means millions, even billions of people believe in some kind of transmigration or rebirth of the soul.  well, even christianity teaches about the resurrection and ascendancy of the heavenly body.  is there another competing theory?  that this is a complex scheme, that the headless man planted behind the warden's desk is the work of a conspiracy of inmates.   yeah, but imagine if it were true, scully. imagine if you could come back and take out five people who had caused you to suffer. who would they be?  i remembered your birthday this year, didn't i, scully?  well, here's somebody we haven't talked to yet.  she should know better than anybody else. mrs. manley?  we're from the fbi.  we'd like to ask you a few questions about your husband. 
 did he ever share his thoughts about dying with you?  you think he's come back, don't you?  she was nervous, or scared.  a lot could have happened in her life in those 11 years neech was in prison. a lot probably did.  i don't know, but i've been thinking a lot about that list, scully. 
 who?  no one heard anything?  warden? 
 warden? why roque?  well then, why the other victims?  did neech have a history with the guards who died?  how badly was he beaten?  so there's a pattern here, a logic. all these men had a violent history with neech. they all caused him to suffer physical pain.  a lockdown may not solve your problem, warden.  if it's a conspiracy among the inmates, but how many inmates could have put that body in your office? how many could have gotten access?  i'm saying that roque may not be victim number three. now, i need a name from you. i need the name of neech's executioner.  how many men know it?  well, his life may be in danger.  well look at it this way, warden. if i'm right, it'll reduce your list of suspects to four.  i'm counting neech manley. mr. simon? perry simon? couple of days' worth of mail. 
 what is it? 

 you told me everything but what i need to know. who else is on that list, john?  how's he doing it, john?  and you're just gonna let those men die?  well, they're going to pin it on somebody! they're gonna pin it on you ...  put you in solitary, one hour a week outside your cell, no contact with anyone. they say it can break a man.  you're afraid of neech?  you saw neech.  tell me who else is on the list, john. who's next?  roque's not on it? 
 and?  what kind of connections?  why help speranza now?  you think speranza's got some sway with neech?  murdered?  this is agent mulder. please open the door.  mrs. manley, we're federal agents. open the door.   danielle?   mrs. manley, open the door. 
   on a count ... 
 drop your weapon!  drop your weapon, danielle.  let's get a paramedic in here.  forget it.  you know, it just doesn't make sense. 
 laying it all on parmelly.  it doesn't bother you that he was only on duty for one of the guards' murders or that he wasn't among the three men that knew the name of neech's executioner?  well, why would he come to you and try to get you the list?  but neech hated roque. if parmelly was working with neech, he wouldn't have done that, would he?  i just don't see the motives. do you? i don't think parmelly killed anybody.  speranza and neech's wife both said they saw him. separator this is my partner, dana scully. 
  this substance --- did you find it anywhere else in the car? on the carpet or the upholstery?   so it was only on the victims body?  no. not yet.   a couple of months ago a case came across my desk from the mississippi office. four women from aberdeen had disappeared in less than a month.  only one of the victims was found, but her body was too decomposed to perform a viable autopsy.  i know. thats why i want you to find out what this is while youre at the coroners office.   im going to try to find out if lauren mackelvey was a lonely heart. each of the aberdeen victims had answered personal ads in the local papers. if this is the same killer, hes just getting started. 
 i thought you said you never met the man lauren was with last night.  they met through an online service?  right. do you remember what room lauren was in when she met him?  "too shy?"  she read you his letters? do you think that she kept any hard copies of them?  yes. can i use your phone?   listen, scully. our killer may have moved out of the personal columns and onto the internet. im gonna send out a localized online warning.   because he opened the account with one of the aberdeen victims credit cards. i just called the online service.   did you find anything in the autopsy?  (referring to the vial of slime) what did this turn out to be?  its similar to stomach acid?  so youre saying that this did that?  (pointing at the remains in the drawer) whats in here, scully? theoretically it should contain the same cellular components as her various tissuesskin, muscle, blood  in the results of your chemical analysis did you find anything missing?  yeah.  fatty tissue. that could explain the weight discrepancy.  the me recorded laurens weight at 122 but her drivers license had her at 165.  no, actually laurens roommate said she was quite nervous about meeting this guy because she put on some weight recently.  i dont know.  what happened?  were dealing with a serial murderer whos using an online service to attract his victims all single women looking for mr. right.  no, it doesnt. something must have gone wrong last night. he was forced to improvise.  not necessarily.  these are letters he e-mailed to lauren mackalvey. they contain lines from a handful 16th century italian poems.  you wont find any of these in bartletts.  look at this. guinezelles "lavitanova," casteonas "il courtagiano," and others i wont even try to pronounce. these are from obscure texts from privately owned libraries that only lend to academic affiliates.  or a graduate student, a visiting fellow, maybe a translator. what we need is to compile a list of everybody in cleveland who has these credentials. can you do that?  it looks like she took her pound of flesh, huh? did you find anything?  that skin you found under the prostitutes fingernails -- i had the crime lab check the dna results against the known offenders database.  no, but they did find something else. check the next page where ive circled.    okay, its not yet the finely detailed insanity that youve come to expect from me. its just a theory, but what if hes not doing this out of a psychotic impulse but rather out of physical hunger? maybe he needs to replenish this chemical deficiency in order to survive  i dont know how else to explain mackalveys missing adipose. and i bet if you checked the aberdeen victims youd find exactly the same thing. this killer secretes a digestive substance which renders the victims fat  there are examples of this in nature, arent there?  okay, but if im right, were not just looking for a serial murderer. were looking for some kind of genetically different human being a creature who may be responsible for who knows how many missing person cases throughout the united states.  scully. i wouldnt have made a good amway salesman. i knocked on more doors.   hes a police detective . his names cross.. thats right. he would have been by sometime this afternoon.  we just got a 911 reporting a possible homicide from a young girl at one of the addresses on crosss list. what about cross? 

 composite artist came up with this sketch from a neighbors description. his name is virgil incanto. at least thats what it says on his rental agreement. theres no record that the guy even exists no dmv, no birth certificate, no social security, not even a bank account.  hes a translator of italian literature. freelance, but his publisher pays him in cashiers checks  hes not going to new york, scully. not now. hes smarter than that. he knows how to survive, you know?  he made contact with each one of his victims, right?   that means theyre all in here somewhere. each one of them. past, present and future. any chance of resurrecting them?  we dont have much time.  that may not be necessary.  that was lauren mackalveys online name. these are all his victims. a regular grocery list.   okay, thanks.  that was cleveland tv. theyve already reported three of the women on the list as missing.  we better go check on them anyway. 
  were with the fbi. were looking for ellen kaminsky.  get back in. 
 ellen? 
 freeze! federal agent! now put your hands up and step out where i can see you. 
 jennifer flackett. kathy miller. hillary turk. 47 women reported missing in five states. at least give their families some peace of mind and tell us how many are on that list because of you.   come on, scully.  open the door. 
separator you mean they don't believe you.  you said on the report that at the time of the accident you believed there was somebody else in the room.  but this person saved your life. is that right?  you have any idea who it is?  a gi?  he speaks to you.  asked by whom, captain?  what, we didn't sign in at the front desk?  general.  i guess this isn't a good time to thank you for seeing us.  well, according to him, he was prevented from doing so by some kind of phantom soldier.  before throwing himself into a wood chipper on the hospital grounds. now, unless that's procedure and protocol, i'd say that the incidents and details have been strangely overlooked, sir.  you really think the general's got something to hide?  you don't think he's just closing ranks to protect his men?  what's that?  why would he do that?  because they were his soldiers and he feels somewhat responsible for the tragedies that have played out?  maybe he knows the deeper secrets to their madness, the biological weapons they were exposed to during the war. the cause of the effect.  you know, what i can't figure out is why a man who so deliberately and methodically set out to commit suicide would leave the one entrance to the room unsecured. but then again, i obviously have a feeble grasp of army protocol and procedure. i talked with security personnel. other than captain draper, they saw no one enter the pool last night and no one leave.  general, do you have a family of your own?  if the pattern we've seen is at all consistent, you and your family may be in danger.  keep an eye out. watch for anything out of the ordinary. 
 this is a military base, scully. there's security everywhere yet nobody saw or heard a thing.  it also fits the mo of lt. col. stans' phantom killer. 
 well, just a word to the wise, sir.  any unusual or unexplained phenomena.  again? this happen before?  did you save the other ones?  have you noticed any other kind of electrical interference? the radio or the television?  you'd better call the police, general. no. but i'm really beginning to like the tune.  really? where?  want me to go run 'em?  hands up. hands up. put your hands over your head. 
 put your hands down behind your back.  cuff him. 
 general and mrs. thomas callahan...  no!  how did he do it, quinton?  how did he get past the guards? how did he kill him? trevor was only 8 years old.  what does that mean, you're just the mailman?  he said he was the mailman. what did he mean by that?  i'll catch up with you later. 
 how did it happen?  had anybody been in the cell with him?  not likely.  yeah. he had help. scully, and he wasn't lying because i think the man who killed him was leonard trimble.  yeah.  you see this? 
 this is an x-ray dental plate.  no, actually, the ones i've been walking around with i had developed at the hospital. 
 see, this is the one i was carrying when we first met stans... this one in the rehab room, in the pool, in the general's office, and this one in the general's house. all of them exposed to some kind of radiation.  from stans' phantom soldier. i came down here wondering if it could be true, what lt. col. stans was describing was a case of astral-projection.  practitioners claim that during a self hypnotic trance, the astro body can actually detaches itself and can float virtually anywhere, sometimes invisible, but sometimes appearing as a apparition. they even claim that the astro-body has psychokinetic capabilities that is far greater than the corporeal body.  well, maybe he needs a psychic connection to a place. a thing or an object ... a letter! that's why quinton called himself the mailman. 
 sometimes the only sane response to an insane world is insanity. 
 do you know anything about backwards masking?  yeah, or on the general's answering machine. check this out. 
 leonard trimble?  he's dead. 
 why did you kill him? 
 i read your medical record, leonard. we know that you refused all efforts at rehabilitation. you've even refused to be fitted with prosthetic limbs.  maybe because you don't need it. because you can leave your body anytime you want. kill anybody you want to kill. 
 like kill general callahan's boy? lt. col. stans' family? sergeant aiklen?  oh, i'm a trip, because i figured you out? you're a soldier. you knew what you were getting into when you enlisted. now you want to blame everybody else. why do you want to blame your cos?  so you took theirs.  no sleepwalking.  call general callahan... tell him to stay out of his house.  scully? 
 no, i don't think so. 
 general callahan! 
 general callahan?! 
 general callahan... are you hurt?  no evidence was found linking leonard trimble to the deaths of general callahan's wife and son. officially, the case remains open. the murders unsolved. 
 amputees sometimes feel the pain of phantom limbs... ghosts of hands still clenching... legs, still aching. (stans is the new mailman. he gives callahan his mail. he's no longer wearing the face plate.) is it not possible that trimble developed a phantom soul? a malevolent psyche that took its revenge on those he held accountable? (the two men regard each other. stans then goes to the door and leaves, closing the door behind him. we see stans push the cart past the door. we hear mulder's voice over as stans pushes the cart down the hall. note the differences in the closed captioning and the actual voiceover. mulder: ( closed captioning: leonard trimble was a casualty of the gulf war. a victim of friendly fire. the wounds of war, however, can go beyond the physical and mental injuries of battle. there was a spiritual toll on the combatants, the attack against the psyche that leaves in its wake only bitterness and anger. it was war that destroyed leonard trimble's body and released his phantom soul. and it was war that destroyed those parts of himself that make us civilized human beings... those better angels of our nature.)separator im looking for the agent in charge.   special agent mulder.  mrs. jacobs? im fox mulder. im with the fbi. im sorry about your daughter.  were going to do everything we can to find her.  i know you must be feeling  fox mulder. any leads on a suspect?  the neighbors?  no, i bet that he didnt know her so well or else he wouldnt have been so bold.  what about this woman at the restaurant?  yeah, thats why i came down here.  mind if i talk to her?  great. thanks. im working on it.  it doesnt surprise me given her history.  i dont think shes involved.   no. let me follow up on that, okay? thanks. 
 what?  yeah?  how could it be amy jacobs blood? lucy was all the way across town.  why? because it matches the victims blood type? how many people have b -positive blood, scully? one in five? thats got to be hundreds of thousands of people in the local population alone.   lucy is a victim, scully, just like amy jacobs. if shes got any connection to this case thats the extent of it.  what are you talking about?   will you do me a favor? will you keep that under your hat?  cause i dont want lucy householder treated like a suspect in this case until its absolutely certain she is one, okay? 
 hows she doing?  thanks. 
 what do you say, lucy? can i take you to dinner? 
 you feeling better?  better than amy jacobs?  if anybody knows, id say you do.  howd you scratch your face?   are you using again, lucy?  have you ever experienced temporary blindness before?  that girls in trouble, lucy.  i think you can, lucy.  well, thats something you have to tell me.  lead us to her.  well, thats too bad, lucy, because right now i think youre her best hope.  scully, take a look at this. 
 yeah. taken in 1978, the week she was found. shed been held in the dark so long her eyes were hypersensitive to the light. whoever held her captive wasnt very big on conversation, either. shes 13 years old and can barely string two words together. its amazing shes gotten anywhere in life.  what is it?  whos the photographer?  what have you got on him?  have you shown this picture to amys little sister?  im going to take it and show it to lucy. hes probably changed a lot over the last 17 years. did you even know his name? carl wade. he worked as a photographers assistant. school pictures mostly. thats where he saw amy jacobs.  i want you to tell me what youre going through. it might feel good to tell somebody.  you can actually feel what shes going through, cant you?  lucy, she needs your help.  lucy . 
  wait here a second, okay? 
 whats going on?  why?  what the hell is happening?  she didnt do it, scully.  she was just here.  youre going to drive her away with this.  a half a dozen witnesses placed her across town at the time of the kidnapping.  well, then trust me on this. shes not working with wade.  she may have bled it.  yes. it may explain why there was so little of it on the carpet in amys bedroom.   hes wrong, scully.  im protecting her because i think shes connected to amy jacobs, just not the way everybody else thinks she is.   carl wade? why would she be connected with carl wade?  after five years in a dark pit, im sure she developed some kind of connection with wade, just not the kind that youre suggesting.  i dont know how to explain it, but i think that wades abduction of amy triggered some kind of physical response in lucy some kind of empathic transference.  thats how i account for what lucys going through. thats how i account for the identical words that corresponded to amy, and the spontaneous wounds and blood, as well.  because shes afraid.    what dont i see?   you dont think ive thought of that? i have. and not everything i do, say, think, and feel goes back to my sister. you, of all people should realize that sometimes motivations for behavior can be more complex and mysterious than tracing them back to one single childhood experience.  what about the girl? was she with him?  which way was the car headed?   okay, interstate 12 county 15 north 903. look at this. right off the 903.  thats where lucy was found 17 years ago. its a small town, scully. somebodys bound to know wades face. know where he lives.   but hes a photographer, right?  he should have an account here. amy?   yeah.  hows amy?  how serious were her injuries?  he must have dragged her through the woods for at least a mile.  did they finish up on lucy?  she drowned, didnt she?  she saved amys life.  i think she died for more than amy.   i think finally, it was the only way she could escape. the only way she could forget what happened 17 years ago. finally, the only way she could outrun carl wade. 
separator come on in. 
 something that just came in the mail. 
 according to the magazine ad i answered, it's an alien autopsy. guaranteed authentic. 
 twenty-nine ninety-five, plus shipping.  but it, it does look authentic. i mean, the setting and the procedures. i mean, it does look as if an actual autopsy is being performed, doesn't it? well, maybe it's this green substance they seem to be extracting from the subject. can you identify that? it's widely held that aliens don't have blood, scully.  where's the alien. but what, what's so intriguing to me is the striking lack of detail here. no, that, that autopsy you saw on tv was so fake precisely because it tried to show too much.  yes, and because, uh... because of this.
 some guy in allentown, pennsylvania. claims he pulled it off the satellite dish at two in the morning. 
 back door's been busted open. hope nobody left the rat out.
 federal agent! come on down.i got tired of losing my gun.okay, now face the fence.face the fence!what's your name?you speak english?great.give me the bag.give me the bag.okay, let's go.let's go!
 did you try the f.b.i. field office?  well, look at this... a beacon in the night. (scully turns and looks at what mulder is looking at, skinner walking towards them.) you don't, uh, speak japanese by any chance, do you?  a murder suspect, yeah.  what are you talking about?  this man, sitting in here? (skinner walks over and looks into the window.) oh, i didn't get his name. i was too busy getting my ass kicked.  tracking down a video piracy thing.  obviously not strengthening the international relations.  no, i paid my twenty-nine ninety-five, scully. i think i'm entitled to a few more answers, don't you think? (mulder opens the trunk to the car and digs through the contents.) i just remembered a piece of evidence from the crime scene that i forgot to turn in. (he pulls out the brown leather satchel and closes the trunk. opening it up, he pulls out a folder. handing a paper to scully, he looks at a picture of a ship making it's way along a coastline. closing the folder, he looks at the picture.) they look like satellite photos. (he flips to the next one, of the ship at various positions going through a canal.)what would he be doing with these? maybe he was going to fit her for a pillowcase too. why don't you stick around, get a motel room and check it out in the morning?  i'm going to go back to d.c. like a good boy, like skinner told me to do, and show these to a few friends of ours.) (he walks around the car as scully watches.) so you're saying that's from a german satellite?  got to love that global economy, huh?  japanese diplomat. 
 what exactly are they spying on there?  did they find it?  why do you say that? 
 the naval shipyard. 
 well, maybe what they found wasn't a japanese sub. it's a salvage ship registered in san diego. according to the harbor master, you went out to meet the boat when customs wouldn't allow it into port.  the d.e.a.? why, what was the problem?  did they find anything?  were they?  well, that doesn't make any sense. 
 the talapus came nonstop from panama. she would have had to stop to refuel, wouldn't she?  would you do me a favor? would you see if there's any paperwork on this? see if there's a heading or a destination for the talapus.  that's all right. i'm happy to wait. 
 i don't remember giving you a key.  yeah, i guess i should really fire my maid, shouldn't i?  what are you talking about?  our murder suspect. 
 what do they think was in it?  am i being accused of murder?  agent scully has it. she has it in the trunk of her rental car. i don't know, i haven't spoken to her since i left her in allentown.  mind if i tidy up a bit in here first? 
 thank you for seeing me on such short notice. 
 then you already know what i'm up against.  i need your advice on how to proceed.  i'd be implicating myself.  but i can't afford to become entangled in a murder investigation. not now.  because of what i've seen. because it would give them time to bury it all where i might not find it again.  i'm listening. 
 what kind of project? the autopsy of an extraterrestrial lifeform, was that part of it? what am i onto here?  scully.  i got something to show you. 
 allentown?  oh, what'd you find?  but you're fine, aren't you, scully?  that is disturbing. but i don't think you should freak out until we find out what this thing is. mulder.i got a fax coming through.
 that's a group of japanese medical officers taken during world war ii. 
 no, i don't think so. not unless you were in japan in the last fifty years.  his name is doctor takeo ishimaru, he's been dead since 1965. he was the commander of an elite section of the japanese medical corps known as "seven thirty-one," a unit now known to have experimented on human subjects. they performed vivisections without anesthesia... tested frostbite tolerance levels on infants...exposed innocent prisoners of war to diseases, the plague.like their nazi counterparts, they were never brought to justice. four of the doctors you see in this photo were on that videotape i showed you, performing that autopsy.  somebody could, because those same four men were murdered yesterday, found here right on u.s. soil. 
 that's what i'd like to know.  possibly our government.  for continuing their work. the work the nazis were doing, trying to create an alien-human hybrid.  scully, after all you've seen... after all you've told me you've seen. the tunnel with medical files, the, the beings moving past you, the... the implant in your neck, why do you refuse to believe?  you think that believing is easy? well, we have proof.i identified what those five photos were tracking. a ship that pulled a ufo off the bottom of the pacific ocean. a ufo that's in a warehouse right now being guarded by military us personnel...a ufo that was probably carrying that e.b.e. we saw in that autopsy tape. part of our government's secret railroad. train cars used to carry test subjects. used to conduct that autopsy we saw being performed. from someone like you who wants proof... who's also willing to believe. hey, scully, it's me.  a trainyard in quinnimont, west virginia. a group of japanese men just put someone in one of those boxcars we saw in the satellite photos. 
 something serious is going down here, scully. 
 the thing they put in the train? it was alive. 
 i got to get on that train. it's hooking up with a canadian passenger train outside cincinnati.  well, that's where you know him from, then. 
 express train to vancouver, what track is it on?  when, when did it leave?  thanks. 
 mulder. 
 why not?  who told you that? 
 who told you, scully? it's coming, scully.
 i can't. 
separator aw, damn it. 
 excuse me. i need your assistance. i'm a federal agent, my name is mulder. 
 i need access to that quarantine car you picked up in west virginia.  i'm a federal agent, sir. i need you to open that car.  well, somebody's got to be able to get in that car.  what's his name? 
 can you take me to his compartment?  stay here. knock on the door but stay away from it. 
 knock again. 
 open it. just unlock it and step away. why did i study french in high school?you got a safe place you can put this? if he finds you before i find him... i want you to make him lie on the ground till i get back, okay? you understand?have you ever used a gun before? i just want you to point it at him. don't pull the trigger. that will kind of give away the game.
 just make sure he runs my way. 
 excuse me? 
 no, no, shh shh shh, he's just got a little motion sickness. i'm going to go find a doctor. why don't you and the young man just find another bathroom?
 i found zama four cars up, strangled in the bathroom.  now, i want you to get up there and seal off that bathroom. i want you to get word to the engineer not to stop this train until i tell him, okay? until i find the killer. 
 put your hands in the air and turn around! put your hands in the air!
 well, maybe you should've filled me in before you tried to kill me. now, who are you?  answer me!  the n.s.a.? since when did they start issuing you guys piano wire instead of guns? 
 there's something on this train, but it's not a bomb. throw that here. 
 why?  so you killed him.  put your hands in the air.  i'll take my chances. 
 no. (mulder walks towards the red-haired man.)where's the keycard? take it out. slowly. (the red-haired man pulls out his keycard slowly.)put it on the table.(the man does so. mulder picks it up and heads for the keycard pad) no? how did you get in here? (the man glares at mulder.)but there's a code, right? zama gave you a code just before you killed him. what is it? one-one-one-one-four-seven-one. (mulder walks over to the keypad.) what?  there's a bomb on this train, where is it?  no, it couldn't be anywhere. if you activated it coming in here, it's got to be on this car.  where do you think it is? (the man shrugs.) you know what i think? i think you're a liar. i don't think you work for the n.s.a. and i don't think there's a bomb on this train. (mulder goes back to the keypad.) shut up! (mulder slides the keycard through the sensor and pushes four ones, a four, and a seven when a chirping alarm goes off, startling both of them. mulder tenses up before realizing it is the red-haired man's cellular phone.)that's you. answer it.(he does so, slowly.) put it down. (the man does so. mulder picks it up and raises it to his ear.)yeah.(cut to a white autopsy room much like the one where the video autopsy was conducted.) scully, where are you? (cut to scully.) who dialed this number?  what are you talking about? (cut to scully.) you're wrong, scully.  well, whatever his name was, scully, he's dead. i don't think this has anything to do with lepers.  who told you this?  well, why do you believe him? (cut back to scully.) what? what's he shown you? (cut to scully, who walks past plastic curtains into a room much like that on the video and in the boxcar. a dissection table sits in the middle. the elder walks slowly behind.) what are you talking about, scully? (cut back to scully.) scully...  scully? scully?  yeah. so what are you saying, that zama is the one who abducted these women? (cut to scully.) what about the ufo i saw them working on?  how can you be so sure? (cut to scully.) those tests never ended. (cut back to scully.) why? (cut back to scully.) well, scully, you're a little late. i'm locked inside that train car. (he sees the red-haired man walking around and aims his gun again. cut to scully, who starts walking.) where is it?  step back. (mulder looks at a ventilation grid and points to it.)open that.(the red-haired man reaches up. cut to scully, who waits, anticipating the worst. cut back to the red-haired man, who pulls off the vent. after staring at it for a little while, the man puts down the grid.) hold on. (mulder looks up into the duct and sees a bomb. the timer is on 1:42:00 and slowly counting down.)oh yeah, i found it. little over an hour and a half. (cut back to scully, who is standing next to the elder now.) why? (cut to scully.) uh, scully, you're breaking up. i can't hear you.  scully?  scully?  step aside. (he moves away and mulder goes to the door, looking at his previous attacker the whole time.)conductor?(the conductor walks up to the door.)where are we? all right, listen to me. i want you to get word to the engineer that there's a bomb on this car.  that's right. i want you to tell him not to make his next scheduled stop and to reroute, you understand?  i want you to tell him to choose a place as far away from a populated area as possible and unhook this car. (the conductor scurries off.) let's move into the corner over there, now. (the red-haired man starts to walk, mulder standing close behind.) i want you to kneel down and put your hands behind you back. (the red-haired man slowly does so.) if what's on this train is important as i think it is, they will. (it is now morning and the trains screeches to a halt. a man walks out and switches the track path. the train moves along, carrying the final car, labeled "82517." inside, mulder talks to the man. the red-haired man fidgets. outside, the man unhooks the car.) what do you care? you were trying to kill me anyway. (mulder walks back away. the red-haired man notices a scalpel on the floor. the train slowly pulls away, leaving the boxcar behind. the timer on the bomb now reads 01:11:06.3 and ticking down. mulder looks at his watch.) scully, let me tell you, you haven't seen america till you've seen it from a train. 
 we're not going to make that station, scully. 
 no, but i'm sure they'll find us. we probably lit up every spy satellite in this hemisphere. it was the only thing to do, scully. if you're right about what's on this car, an explosion outside a populated area... ...would reduce the risks. we'll have to wait and see. 
 i'm fielding all offers and suggestions. they're not going to come, are they?
 tell me something. you got on this train to kill doctor zama, then what? what were your orders then? who are you protecting?unless that bomb is as phony as you are, we've both got about half an hour to live. is that part of the plan? well, what about that thing locked back there? what provisions were made for saving its life?  you know what it is, don't you? you're going to die for that thing. is it important enough to die for? what is it, a plague carrier? a leper? we're both going to die in here. the difference is, i'm going to die quickly.as an employee of the national security agency, you should know that a gunshot wound to the stomach is probably the most painful and the slowest way to die... but i'm not a very good shot and when i miss, i tend to miss low.
 a weapon? what kind of a weapon? a standing army immune to the effects of those weapons. that's what doctor zama did, didn't he? he came up with an immunity to those weapons... and he was trying to smuggle that thing back to his own country to share the science, only our government isn't in the mood to share, right? they've been doing experiments since world war ii, tests on innocent civilians... but zama succeeded where the others had failed. and that thing in there... that's no innocent civilian. it's not a leper either. it's an alien-human hybrid, isn't it?
 yeah.  what is it? 
 what are you watching?  you mean i might get my twenty-nine ninety-five's worth after all? 
 let's hope not. what's the code? 
 wait, are you there? 
 one, zero, one. 
 three, three. 
 tick-tick, scully. 
 you think it's a one? are you sure? 
 one. 
 no. okay, call me if you learn anything. nothing, scully. not the rail operators, not the forestry department. nobody knows what happened to that train car.
 senator matheson hasn't returned my phone calls. his, uh... his aides say he's out of the country.  did you locate the briefcase that zama left on the train.  this doesn't look like the same briefcase.  these aren't the same journals. they've all been rewritten.  they're getting away with it, scully.  i know what i saw on that train car. it wasn't a leper and it wasn't human.  i, i don't need an apology for the lies. i, i don't care about the fictions they create to cover their crimes. i want them accountable for what did happen. i want an apology for the truth. 
separator his parishioners said the reverend finley was bleeding from his hands like the wounds of the crucifixion.  the sign bestowed by god upon the righteous. 
 no, i think this is a case of too much faith.  and too much sugar.  it's fake. just like the others. 
 i've been tracking a series of international religiously motivated murders. all of the victims have been so-called stigmatics and all of them have been frauds, like the reverend here.  it's a claim that's wholly unsubstantiated, though there have been many pretenders, eleven of whom have been murdered in the past three years.  either we're dealing with a psychotic religious fanatic who's hell-bent on exposing these kind of frauds, or a less programmatic psycho who harbors a murderous resentment towards the church, or maybe it's just a very disgruntled altar boy.  anyway, it's safe to say this guy carries a grudge, and if i'm right about one thing, the killer is here and he's looking for victim number twelve. thank you for contacting us so quickly.  institutionalized for what?  let me talk to you for a minute here ... 
 mrs. kryder? my name is fox mulder. i'm with the fbi.  we're here because we have reason to believe that kevin may be in some danger.  as strange as it might sound, someone may be targeting people like kevin.  people exhibiting wounds that might be interpreted as having religious significance. 
 i'm sure there's an explanation, mrs. kryder, but right now everybody's primary concern should be for kevin's safety.  let's get out of here, scully.  they've taken him into custody. we've warned them about his safety. i don't know what else we can do.  no, not yet, but my guess is that the kid did it to himself. the boy has his father taken away. he hurts himself to relieve his dad of guilt and to get him back.  he's in an institution.  mr. kryder, the claims you've made for your son may have put him in danger. do you know that?  they?  these forces. what do they want?  he's chosen you?  let's go.  excuse me?  what color hair did he have? was it brown, or blonde, or ...  how tall was he?  was he about my height? taller, shorter?  about 6-2, 6-3?  we're sorry, mrs. kryder. we're doing everything we can. scully ... 
 yeah, looks like kevin was abducted by homer simpson's evil twin. 
 i think that's a safe assumption.  none of the previous victims were ten year old boys. 
 yeah. we're not sure how accurate that is.  federal agents! put down your weapon! put it down right here! down, now! put it down!  where's the boy? where's the boy? 
 where's the boy? what have you done with kevin?  is this kevin kryder's blood?  did you hurt him?  by who? who asked you to protect him?  god! that's quite a long distance call, isn't it?  it's the end of the world as we know it, right?   and he that has a tongue, let him speak. now tell me where he is!  and townsfolk wonder why i sleep in on sunday.  sit down, mr. jarvis.  hey!  kevin, what is it?  any revelations?  you want me to smell him?  what am i supposed to be smelling?  you're serious?   and now you're suggesting that this is st. owen?  scully, those stories you're referring to are mostly regarded as hagiographic fabrications, not historical truths, just like the occurrence of the stigmata.  this man? he was rather abnormal in life, maybe he's decomposing abnormally.  do you really believe that?  even if science can't explain them?  well, i wouldn't let faith overwhelm your judgement here. these people are simply fanatics behaving fanatically using religion as a justification. they give bona fide paranoiacs like myself a bad name. they're no more divine or holy than that ketchup we saw on the murdered preacher. and i think once you've finished your autopsy, you'll come to the same conclusion. st. owen. 
 it's what you turned up.  those burn marks and impressions on jarvis's neck. they pulled a pair of prints. take a look at this. a partial index and a full oblique, burned right onto the skin.  no, not yet. but i cross-checked the prints in the ncic database. they belong to a businessman named simon gates. he's the ceo of a company based in atlanta. he's one of the wealthiest men in the south.  he was arrested three few years ago on a dui - left a young boy paralyzed. he received a suspended sentence, then he left the country. went to israel.  have you heard of jerusalem syndrome?  yeah, they return home convinced they're the messiah, moses, the virgin mary, even the devil himself. well, if that's what simon gates believes, he's just as delusional as michael kryder, only a lot more dangerous.   mulder. what? well, how is that possible?   hold on.  yeah, a social worker took kevin out to lunch at 1 o'clock supposedly, but witnesses claim they saw him outside the facility with his mother at the exact same time. is he ready to go?  did he id gates?  that'll help. a man fitting gates' description rented a car, under the name forau. that's one of the devil's disciples. 
 you never draw my bath.  he was in an accident.  maybe you missed it.  what do you think it is?  scully ...  sure of what exactly?  that was in the bible. it's a parable, it's a metaphor for the truth, not the truth itself. why didn't kevin conveniently bi-locate when owen jarvis abducted him from the shelter.  i wait for a miracle every day. but what i've seen here has only tested my patience, not my faith.  i'll call the police. they put up a cordon in a ten-mile radius. no sign of them. best i can figure is they must have had an acetylene torch in the back of the truck. i don't know how else they could have done it.  who?  why?  the man's a nut case, scully.  but if kevin is in immediate danger, even if his father has anything to say about gates, it doesn't help us right now.  scully? 
 scully. they had a sighting of gates. he tried to rent another car at the airport, under the name forau again. did you hear what i said? 
 scully, the man is at the airport. if he hasn't already killed kevin, he's trying to get as far away as he can.  you think it's you, don't you? you think you're the one who's been chosen to protect kevin.  you ok?  we have a couple of hours before our flight. i told the sheriff we'd go down and make a formal statement about gates' death.  ok. separator mulder.  oh, my apartment complex was being fumigated so i thought i'd get away for the weekend. i came up to massachusetts. 
 no, just, uh... sitting and thinking. widespread accounts of unidentified colored lights hovering in the skies were reported last night.look, scully, i know it's not your inclination but... did you ever look up into the night sky and feel certain that... not only was something up there but... it was looking down on you at that exact same moment and was just as curious about you as you are about it?
 scully... what are you wearing? i understand what you're saying, but i, i, i just need to keep looking.
 isn't that what, uh, doctor zaius said to charlton heston at the end of "planet of the apes?" 
 scully, i got to go.  just sitting, thinking.  i heard reports of several ufo sightings in this area last night. you see anything?  any more calls tonight?  no. 
 oh, i was just knocking off some bugs that landed on my... landed on my windshield. maybe, maybe beetles. i dunno, i'm not really good with bugs.  what's the matter?  i think you better get up here.  it appears that cockroaches are mortally attacking people. 
 i'm crouching over a bug exterminator whose recently deceased body was discovered with cockroaches crawling all over him. the local sheriff says that two other bodies were found in the same condition this afternoon. 
 miller's grove. it has a large science constituency. the other incidents involved a molecular biologist and an astrophysicist and the witness to this case is an alternative fuel researcher. these reports are not coming from yahoos out in the boondock. insect bites?  no. 
 anaphylactic shock? 
 okay, we'll check that out.  no, no, no, i'm sure you're right. thanks, scully. 
 my drug dealer. i take it back, scully, i think you better get up here.  yeah, and this was no allergic reaction. two witnesses claim they saw the victim screaming about cockroaches burrowing into him. 
 we haven't located any yet, but there are wounds all over the body. 
 well... the victim did attempt to extract the insects using a razor blade, but we're not sure all of the incisions are self-inflicted, except for the severed artery. 
 uh, well, he did have a homemade lab set up, but i'm not sure what he was producing. aw, man, smells like a septic tank! would you make sure this gets analyzed, here?
 ekbom's syndrome? 
 no, uh, you're probably right. i'm sorry to bother you. 
 how about some urine? for a drug test. 
 get me a container. oh, i think i killed it.
 it must have molted. it's just empty exoskeleton.  we've got more than that, sheriff. i think that bug's exoskeleton was made of metal. 
 an abrasion caused by a metallic substance?  what do you need to tell me? 
 i don't know.  i wouldn't know. 
 he's upset that i don't know what's going on here.  i see the correlation, but just because i work for the federal government doesn't mean i'm an expert on cockroaches.  experiments?  what are you suggesting? 
 you might want to keep that theory to yourself, sheriff. no need to create a panic.  i don't see any roaches.  hmm. he doesn't appear odd in any... 
 the medical examiner. his body was found next to a toilet, covered in roaches. i really think you should come... yeah. 
 brain aneurysm?  well, how do you explain the roaches, though? 
 almost.  mulder.  do they attack people?  but do they attack people? 
 well, that all makes perfect sense, scully. i don't like it at all. did you know that the federal government, under the guise as the department of agriculture, as been conducting secret experiments up here?  it's too late, i'm already inside. 
 i'm a house. it's apparently empty. 
 it's a, uh... typical two-story suburban house. nice big living room, sparsely furnished... nice carpets... fireplace...nice kitchen. modern appliances.moving walls.
 yeah. they're rippling. oh! cockroaches!
 cockroaches. they're everywhere. ah, i'm surrounded.
 flashlight went out... 
 got to go. 
 i'm a federal agent.  agent mulder, f.b.i. 
 doctor berenbaum, i'm going to have to ask you a few questions.  what's a woman like you doing in a place like this? why all the secrecy about your research? you've got some of the good townspeople suspicious.  yeah... but those, those cockroaches... are they, uh, a normal species?  have you ever come across, uh, a type of cockroach that, uh, is attracted to people? 
 really. so, you've never seen an instance where a cockroach actually attacks a human being?  nose? what, what is that there?
 what is that supposed to prove?  as, uh... as nocturnal insect swarms. that's, uh... that's fascinating.  honest?  no. no, actually, i, i find it quite refreshing. not now.you know, um... i have always found insects to be very interesting. i can't sleep.  they're conducting legitimate experiments. i met an entomologist, doctor berenbaum, who agrees with your theory of an accidental importation of a new cockroach species. no. but she did tell me everything else there is to know about insects. 
 bambi also has this theory i've never come acro... 
 doctor berenbaum. anyway, her theory is...  yeah. both her parents were naturalists. her theory is that ufos are actually nocturnal insect swarms passing through electrical air fields. 
 scully, can i confess something to you? 
 i hate insects. 
 no, no, i'm not afraid of them. i hate them. one day back when i was a kid, i, uh... i was climbing this tree when i noticed this leaf walking towards me. it took forever for me to realize that it was no leaf. 
 yeah, i had a praying mantis epiphany and, as a result, i screamed. no, not... not a girlie scream, but the scream of someone being confronted by some before unknown monster that had no right existing on the same planet i inhabited. did you ever notice how a praying mantis' head resembles an alien's head? i mean, the mysteries of the natural world were revealed to me that day, but instead of being astounded, i was... repulsed.  oh, i got to go. 
 one of the motel guests died. 
 scully, i think this man died from simply from a reaction to the cockroaches.  no, i... i'm saying that i think this mans imply had a heart attack. word about the cockroach infestation and the deaths related to it have gotten out and... i think this man simply saw some cockroaches and scared himself to death.
 maybe not. all your conjectures have proved correct. the exterminator did die from anaphylactic shock. the teenage boy did die from self-inflicted wounds and was getting high off methane fumes derived from burning manure. the medical examiner did die from a brain aneurysm. 
 or the fact that their exoskeletons are made of metal.  whatever. 
 can you tell what kind of cockroach it is?  is it abnormal?  does it still look unusual?  you're implying that this insect is mechanical? but what am i supposed to be looking at here?have, have you ever seen anything like this before? he works out of this town? doctor ivanov?  so this one is just programmed to head towards any object moving within the field of its sensors?  then why is it following me?  your contract is with nasa?  i'm just speculating here, but if extraterrestrial lifeforms do exist...  and assuming that they're more technologically advanced than we are, and if your own ideas about the future of space exploration are correct, then...  can you identify this?  try it under the microscope. are you all right, doctor ivanov?can you identify that?sir?
 oh, doctor, i, uh... i appreciate you taking the time to, uh... answer my questions. 
 greetings from planet earth. even the...  mulder. 
 where are you?  manure?  scully, if an alien civilization were technologically advanced enough to build and send artificially intelligent robotic probes to the farthest reaches of space, might they not have also been able to perfect the extraction of methane fuel from manure? an abundant and replenishing energy source filled on a planet with dung-producing creatures.
 where's the research facility located? wait, bambi. you better wait here until i make sure it's safe.  well, i'm not so much worried about the cockroaches than i am about the human element. (he gets out of the car. doctor eckerle peers out of his window through his blinds, frightened, breathing heavily. outside his window, he sees rows of dung sitting on long tables, cockroaches crawling over them and chirping. he sits down and clutches the can of bug spray to his chest. he looks at a cockroach sitting on the desk and sprays it with the "die! bug! die!" the bug is immune to the spray and crawls down the desk. eckerle keeps spraying at it, almost crying. he throws the can at the desk. mulder walks through the dark facility and into the room full of dung. he walks past, looking at all of the cockroaches. he reaches down to pull one off of a pile when a gunshot rings out. mulder ducks as the bullet strikes the dung heap he was reaching to. he looks up to see eckerle aiming his gun at him.) doctor eckerle? (he stands, holding his hands out.) you're not in any danger, these insects won't harm you.  they weren't responsible for those deaths... but they might be responsible for ours if you continue firing your gun in a plant full of methane gas.  in madagascar, they have roaches that hiss by blowing air through the holes in their upper thorax.  i don't. that's why we shouldn't kill these, but capture them for further study. now, please... put the gun down. (eckerle looks at the gun and takes a deep, jagged breath.) no. you've just had a very stressful day that's affected your ability to think clearly. your judgment is a little clouded right now.  i assure you, doctor eckerle, i'm just as human as you are... if not more so. (his phone rings, sounding much like the chirping emitted by the strange roaches. they look at it. get out, scully! this whole place could blow! (they run outside. mulder looks over at bambi.)get down!(she puts her head between her knees as mulder and scully run for cover. they duck behind mulder's car as the inside of the facility explodes in fire, flames bursting out of the windows and spraying everything with manure. bambi looks back at the agents, who are covered in the feces.)crap.(they look at each other. in the early morning, it is raining. firemen are hard at work as frass walks towards them, wearing a raincoat. the agents are sharing an umbrella.) or anything else, for that matter.  well, they're completely desiccated... just like the molted exoskeleton. (he hands the bag to ivanov.) well, i've already had a similar sample analyzed, it's nothing but common metals. what do you hope to find from it?  you know, i never thought i'd say this to you, scully... but you smell bad. (he smirks and walks away, taking the umbrella with him.) the development of our cerebral cortex has been the greatest achievement of the evolutionary processes. big deal. while allowing us the thrills of intellect and the pangs of self-consciousness, it is all too often overruled by our inner, instinctive brain, the one that tells us to react, not reflect, to run rather than ruminate. maybe we have gone as far as we can go, and the next advance, whatever that may be, will be made by beings we create ourselves using our own tech...tech...technology, lifeforms we can design and program not to be ultimately governed and constricted by the rules of survival.or perhaps that step forward has already been achieved on another planet by organisms that had a billion years head start on us. if these beings ever visited us, would we recognize what we were seeing? and upon catching sight of us, would they react in anything but horror at seeing such mindless, primitive, hideous creatures?
separator the detective who contacted me told me to turn left.  stoplight.  well, im sure she meant stop sign.  yeah, i see it, it looks like a, eh, goat, some kinda horned beast.   yeah, right here, in this circle.   if its no bother, if its not too big a deal, maybe you can get me a few photographs of that thing which bears absolutely no resemblance to a horned beast.  oh, hi.  he was scratching to get in and i thought, with the threat of satanic animal sacrifices looming, maybe you should keep him inside.   eh, first off, id like to apologize for my partners rude behavior, she tends to be rather rigid, but, but rigid in a wonderful way, not like she was today. personally, id like to try to keep a more open mind.  i was hoping you could help me solve the mystery of the horny beast. an electrical surge caused a power failure, but somehow activated the motor that retracts the blenches and he got caught inside of them.  i went to follow up a lead with detective white.  you see what?  i didnt ditch you!  that man, is he always that hysterical?  go ahead  no, no, be my guest. i know how much you like snapping on the latex. 
  whats that, what is that, right there, that some kind of lettering there?  whos doctor godfrey?  this may not be any time to mention it, but someone is wearing my favorite perfume. 
 what?     must be detective white  what?  what are you talking about?  we came down here because of three unexplained deaths, detective white is just trying to solve them. she could use our help.  was it a murder?  let me drive  scully, its not what you think  will you let me drive!?   mulder  who is this?  where are you, margi? just tell me where you are come on, margi, lets get you out of here.  who?  she killed all the high school boys.  how did she do it? scully, its me.  im at a crime scene, a new one. i think i have a solid lead on these deaths.  whos that?    hold on a second  margi kleinjan?  actually, im way ahead of you, scully, because im standing here with margi kleinjan and she just gave me a statement implicating her friend.  terri.  you what?  look, scully, i dont think this has anything to do with any cult. i wanna get them both in and get a formal statement and clear this thing up, okay?  scully?  youre the driver. 
entering comity the perfect harmony city pop 38,825separator  he's an unemployed painter, divorced, no children. he came to the us from uzbekistan during perestroika. he failed to mention on his ins application that he spent the better part of his twenties in an insane asylum.  you thought all they produced were great hockey players. the crimes took place over a three year period. all the victims were male. aged 17 to 25.  well, according to the me there was no evidence of any sexual assault. death was caused by massive blood loss due to facial mutilation. we also reported that the wound pattern on all the victims was identical. it's all there on page three. 
 or individuals, if you count the spirit mostow says possessed him during the murders.  that was the operational opinion until last night... 
 when a 19 year old male was found dead six miles from here with an identical set of facial wounds.  well, according to assistant director skinner, who asked us to look into this case, the details of the mutilations were never released. only members of the crime team would have that information. and mostow's been in custody for five days. cuz he's been working. 
 haven't you, john? what is it? what is this thing?  does it have a name? does it have a name to go with that face?  what do you call it? satan? the devil?  scully, this is bill patterson. he runs the investigative support unit out of quantico.  that's what always amazed me about you, bill. you never fit your own profile. no one would ever guess how really mean-spirited you are. 
 you think he's got an accomplice then. even though your own profile of mostow states that he's most certainly working alone.  what about these drawings of mostow's? the gargoyles?  i didn't get a chance to...  well, that would make sense. historically, that's what gargoyles have been used for. to ward off evil spirits. like on the eaves of buildings.  i was asked to look into this case. if you've got a problem with that i suggest you take it up with ad skinner. 
 patterson never liked me.  not by patterson.  didn't want to get my knees dirty. 
 couldn't quite cast myself in the role of the dutiful student.  something like that. yeah. 
 yeah, patterson had this thing about wanting to track a killer, to know an artist, you have to look at his art. it really meant, if you want to catch a monster, you have to become one yourself. 
 this guy is definitely some kind of monster. 
 it's just a cat...  no. he obviously has his own key to the place. 
 there's air coming through here. there could be something on the other side of the wall. 
 i've got some light. 
 more gargoyles, scully. lots of them. sculpted in clay.  the name is from the french "gargouille". the name of a medieval dragon that prowled the river seine. whose horrible image became the symbol of the soul of the condemned. turned to stone. or of the devils and demons of the underworld spared eternal damnation. the embodiment of the lesser forces of the universe who inspired dread, the threat of our own damnation. ushers into hell or into the realm of our own dark fears and imagination. for over 1200 years, this grotesque image has found its expression in stone, clay, wood, oil and charcoal. born again and again as if resurrecting itself by its own will through tortured human expression, almost as if it existed. haunting men inwardly so that it may haunt mankind for eternity. as it must have haunted john mostow. but what impulses moved it to kill? could this be the same dark force at work? its ultimate expression the destruction of the flesh? of the very hand that creates it? is this evil something born in each of us? crouching in the shadow of every human soul waiting to emerge? a monster waiting to violate our bodies and twist our will to do its bidding? is this the monster called madness? 
 i'm not sure yet.  i have a few theories. i'm just trying to stitch them together right now.  you said it yourself. if you want to know the artist, look at the art. i'm finally agreeing with you.  maybe you can also tell me why this man was compelled to sculpt and draw the same face again and again. why he's still doing it now.  he said that this thing wants to see his own reflection.  unless he's telling the truth.  well, i wouldn't want to disappoint you by not disappointing you.  it was turned off.  i was working. scully: at 3: 30 in the morning? mulder, i haven't seen or spoken to you in almost two days. you haven't been returning my calls-- this thing exists, scully. it's real.  whatever keeps killing those young men.  whoever attacked me wasn't a person.  what makes you think i'd want to see that? i didn't imagine it, scully.  patterson?  why didn't it kill me like it killed the others? why did it let me live?  then help me understand, john.  no.... you have to help me go deeper. you have to help me get inside his head. just how he got inside yours so i can find out what it wants.  it wants to kill innocent young men by carving up their faces?  unless i find it...  just tell me how to find it, john. 
 just tell me how to find this thing.  scully?  i'm at mostow's studio.  no. should i be?  i'm not sure.  what makes you say that?  when?  yeah. i examined mostow's knife yesterday in the evidence room.  because i wanted to hold it. wanted to see what it felt like in my hand.  look... scully, i didn't take it.  yeah. 
 what are you doing here?  it's nemhauser. 
 but you already knew that, didn't you? you killed him, bill. when he suspected it was you... you killed him.  not me. not now.  not until you tell me what you're doing here.  look at your hands. 
 now ask yourself what you're doing here.  you're here because john mostow stole three years of your life. every day and every night for three years you lived and breathed the horror show that was in his head and i'm sorry... imagining everything that he imagined. sinking deeper and deeper into the ugliness that you taught us to do. when you finally caught him, it didn't just go away, and the violence... it stayed alive inside you ... til it had to come out. you didn't want to do what you were doing. you wanted to stop but you couldn't. not by yourself. that's why you called on me in the first place, why you couldn't kill me when you had the chance.  scully, get that light off me!  you don't understand!  it's him, scully. 
 this is agent mulder fbi. there's a man down... gunshot wound. we work in the dark. we do what we can to battle the evil that would otherwise destroy us. 
 but if a man's character is his fate, it's not a choice but a calling. sometimes the weight of this burden causes us to falter. from the fragile fortress of our mind. allowing the monster without to turn within. we are left alone staring into the abyss. into the laughing face of madness.separator yeah? 
 anything up?  something interesting came into my attention last night. a french salvage ship, the piper maru, limped into port in san diego yesterday, all the way from the north pacific.  using the national weather service satellite system, i was able to track its course. this was its original position.  yeah, that's where the boat we know as the talapus pulled up what you believe was a russian sub, but what i believe was the remains of a ufo.  look scully, i don't know what it is but something is still down there and now the french are looking for it too.  so why all the attention paid to this site? what information are they acting on?  i would but the entire crew is being treated for radiation burns.  the french government is keeping that information classified for some reason.  i checked. it's thousands of miles away from any test sites.  what?  well that's why i'm in the basement scully.  is that what you think of me?  well that's good because there's some garbage in san diego i want you to help me dig through. 
 dr seizer?  special agent mulder. this is agent scully.  yeah, how are they doing?  not on this planet.  how could that be? with that level of radiation, how could one man not be exposed?  could it be possible for us to talk to him?  try the ins or the french consulate, see what you can pull up on him.  agents mulder and scully, fbi.  have you turned anything up?  the crew of this ship is being treated for radiation.  so it's ok for us to go on board?  feels like home.  no, i'm looking for the vcr.  the dive suit has a video camera. 
 looks like the fuselage of a plane.  i just got very turned on.  would it have been carrying anything radioactive? 
 then what was it those men exposed to?  mr gauthier? mr gauthier? open the door, it's the fbi.  mr gauthier?     
 mr gauthier? i want you to lie still. i'm with the fbi. what happened?  how did you get here?  the piper maru? that's the last thing you remember?  do you know where you are?  yeah.  nobody else's home, but somebody has been going over your papers.  she's not here, look.. you need to be careful, you have some kind of oil all over you?  i want you to remain calm, ok? i'd like to ask you a few questions about a letter. about a j. kallenchuk salvage brokers.  well, somebody did. and i think you know why.  my name is mulder, i'm with the fbi.  
 i'm looking for mr kallenchuk.  maybe you can tell me where i could find him.  well i've got a letter here typed on his stationary. maybe you typed it for him.  mulder.  ok well, why don't you have him call me as soon as he can.   yes, what did you say your name was?  thank you geraldine.   
 mulder.  san francisco airport, where are you?  what?  says who?  that was the name we saw written on that dive chart right?  why if they knew about it, why wait 50 years to try to recover it? and why was the only person not exposed, the diver, sent down to find it.  why don't you try to find out?  i gotta go to hong kong.  yeah, look, uh.. i'm gonna miss my flight, so uh... i gotta call you back ok? 
 is this seat taken miss kallenchuk? geraldine kallenchuk, isn't it?  i noticed you flew 1st class, must be good money selling classified government secrets.  how much for the location of that p-51 mustang you sold the french government?  actually i'd rather know who sold you the secret.  why did you run off to hong kong?  to sell him what?  oh your buyer's a woman.  actually you know it is my damn business because whatever you're selling is killing half a dozen sailors in a california hospital. which is why i'm gonna arrest you.  i just did it, now let's make a deal. 

 you gave up your civil rights when you committed treason.  open it.  pardon my gender type, but after you.  where are the lights?  krycek. i thought guns were against the law here.  why don't you take that gun and shoot yourself in your head like you shot my father?  it's no way to treat your business partner, especially since she's been moving those secrets you've been selling so well.  
 damn.  
 that's for your partner.  this is for me  and this is for my father   now you tell me.  oh yeah? then who was it?  either way krycek you're a liar.  i want that digital tape.  like hell you don't, it contains the secrets you were selling as well as everything else our government knows about the existence of extra terrestrial life .  obviously, you found a way.  where is it?  you put that tape in my hands and we'll talk about it. why don't you go to the bathrooms and clean yourself off? if you're not out of there in 3 minutes, i'm coming in there to kill you.    
 feel better? separator give me the key.  we're being followed. a dark sedan with its lights off. it was parked on the shoulder about half a mile back. speed up.  speed up!     
 guess i'm not dead.  maybe you can tell me.  we were run off the road by 2 men.  krycek.  he was in hong kong, he's got the digital tape. he's been selling information.  they ordered him out of the car. i thought they were going to kill him. i though they were going to kill us both. and then there was this bright flash. that's all i remember.  what's his condition?  who shot him?  what are those?  yeah and who's this one belong to?  it looked great on me in the store.  i had it flown it from san diego as evidence.  the suit was covered in a thin film of oil, as was the french diver when i found him lying delirious on his kitchen floor.  well from the reports i'm getting, it's the same substance that was found on the french diver's wife when she was discovered on the floor of a hong kong airport bathroom a few days ago. according to the analysis, it's 50-weight diesel oil. it's the same oil that was used during world war ii submarines and on p-51 mustangs for that matter.  this oil is not only 50 years old scully, but its composition has been altered by exposure to radiation.  this just wasn't ordinary diesel oil, i think it's huh.. i think it's a medium, a medium being used by some kind of alien creature that uses it to .. body jump.  i think that it came off of whatever they pulled from the bottom of the pacific ocean, it's been waiting 50 years down there for another host, another body to bring it up to the surface.  and then into krycek.  i think that mrs gauthier went to hong kong under the control of this thing  to find krycek. i know, i know how it sounds.  no but i think that the 64 thousand dollar question is what is this thing looking for? and now that it's in krycek, what does it want? you mean if i want somebody whacked on the knee with a lead pipe?  it's gone. 
 let me see that.  hand me a pencil.  actually, it's a phone number, new york city area code , 555 1012. now don't drop that  that's a finely calibrated piece of investigative equipment. i gotta make a phone call.   who is this?  you probably know. a man named krycek.  yeah nice guy, killed my father, you wouldn't happen to know where he is, do you?  it's so nice of you to remember.  i would love to.  we're all alone in new york city, sir.  what for?  no, you'll answer a few questions for me first, like what was pulled off the bottom of the pacific ocean.  left out until now?  almost the entire crew died.  a mystery to whom?  i know.  you give me krycek and i will tell you.  you haven't told me anything i didn't already know.  'cause he has the tape.  the tape he's been selling those secrets off.  you don't know where he is either, do you?  you're looking for him too.  scully it's me.  the 2 guards you had posted in front of skinner's room, are they still there?  i want you to get down there and double check for me, ok?  just get down there and check, ok? yeah mulder.  at the airport in new york.  i'm looking for my rental car agreement.  i'll tell you when i see you.  who?  scully..  i want you to meet me at the dc airport in an hour, i want you to get 2 tickets on the 1st flight for north dakota.  the salvaged ufo. i didn't sign any disarmament treaty.   
 we're 8 stories down. 
 apparently, nobody else signed that treaty either.  these tunnels must go on for miles.   
 he's here.   
 he's here. you led him here, didn't you?  why are you here? why all these men?  the ufo's here. that's what krycek's after, isn't it?  you won't get away with this! you can't bury the truth! 
 
separator hey. i think you drooled on me.  it's, uh... twenty to three. 
 no, nothing here, nothing at the other two payphones. i checked in with burst. he's beginning to think it's a wild goose chase. hello?
 who is this? what's your name? 
 why do i have to prove my worth to you? you think this is a game? what, do you want to be found? all right, where's my next bread crumb? "let your fingers do the walking."  no, no, what if, what if pusher was the last person to use this phone? can you redial on these kind of phones?  rings a bell, huh? let's go, g-woman. 
 collins, let it go.  put that down. 
 federal agent!  that is correct, your honor.  we believe that they were indeed murders, your honor.  we have the defendant on audio tape confessing to the murders. on several separate occasions, he clearly identifies them as such. furthermore, the defendant knows crime scene details that were only available to the police.  but your client was present.  i believe that these people died because it was the defendant's express will that they do so. 
 this man admitted to being a killer for hire. i believe he has a unique suggestive ability which makes for the perfect m.o. he is able to talk his victims into injuring themselves.  yesterday, a federal law enforcement officer was induced to self-immolation by the defendant. i witnessed it. all these other officers witnessed it.  a phone prank? he had the details of every case, your honor.  hey, your shoe's untied. made you look.how do you do it?
 hold.  i think i should go in alone.  what if modell turns one of your men against the others... in a crowded hospital? i think we should give him what he wants.  we stand a better chance if we're separated. i'll go on mike. that way, you'll know what he's doing and where he is at all times. you got a radio so i can keep my hands free? think i get the playboy channel? smile, scully.
 no. i wouldn't want to end up pointing it at anybody except modell. let's get this show on the road.federal agent, go about your business as usual.scully, do you read me?
 nothing out of the ordinary. 
 two shots fired.  no, not yet! everybody keep moving! federal agent! let me see what the hell's going on. you, uh, you getting this back there? 
 looks like the guard shot the technician, then he shot himself. his gun is missing. the swat lieutenant, tell your men modell may be heading your way. over here.  right here. 
 we're batting a thousand, scully. modell's dying. he's got nothing to lose. 
 i'm going to kill you, modell.  scully, run! scully... 
 you know, we thought he was undergoing treatment. we were wrong.  read his chart. the m.r.i.s were a way to gauge how much life he had left, but he consistently refused treatment. the tumor remained operable right up until the end, but he refused to have it removed.  i think it was like you said. he was always such a... little man. this was finally something that made him feel big. 
separator well, what about the curse? the secona believe great evil would befall anyone that disturbed the remains of an amaru, a woman shaman that they would be devoured by the jaguar spirit.   im sure.  can we see it?   personally, if someone digs me up in 1,000 years i hope there's a curse on them too.  do you believe the bones are cursed?  he had no political feelings about the piece being brought here?  do you know where we might find him? 
 yes, we would like to know. we'd be very interested in what you think.   alone?  it's nice to meet people who really believe in something, isn't it?  do you think bilac's a suspect?  based on what?  he did look a little squirrely back there.  well, let me remind you we don't have a body and not much more forensic detail than a lot of spilled blood.  i'm not sure he did anything.  go with it, scully. 
 they turn up a body?  if dr. lewton was brought through here, it's going to be hard to determine. it looks like it rained pretty hard last night.  maybe somebody didn't want that car started.  why not?  rats?  whats he estimate on the time of death? scully: somewhere between 9:30 and midnight when the guard discovered the blood. that's about the same time as craig horning.  i dont know.  why?  i think its starting to rain again.  what the hell is that? 
 do we know for sure it's lewton?  a man of taste.  torn or pulled?  by what?  more rats.  looking for mona wustner. i got a panicked call from her.  yeah, where is she?   mulder.   no, but her car is parked outside. shes not here. did you find bilac?   is there a date of entry on that?   read about the jaguar coming down from the trees again.   maybe thats how the intestines got up there.   what the hells that supposed to mean?   what's he want from her?   scully, i'm going to have to call you back.   i hope not.  
 what are you doing here?  i said, what are you doing here?   hey, scully! come here for a second.  just dawned on me. why do you think there's so much water in here?  there's water on every seat. it's more like every toilet overflowed. now, why would that happen?   i hate this. 
 rats. 
 in every toilet.  yeah.   finally a body. 
 someone fed this dog rat poison?  and the dog ate the cat.  more rats, scully.  don't you think that's significant?  there were rats in dr. lewton's car engine. there were rats in the bathroom where it looks like mona might have been killed and now here.  no, no. i think its more than that. what is it that the secona believe? that the jaguar spirit will devour anybody that desecrates the burial place of a holy woman. essentially, theyre talking about transmigration of the soul into animal form achieved through a ceremony where they drink, the uh...  yeah. to summon the spirits.  no, i think those rats were killed trying to escape from something.  no, the lids were down. they werent trying to get into the toilets, they were trying to get out. they were coming from within the sewer lines trying to get away from something.  go with it, scully. 
 what about a rat?  you ever see any rats in this room?  how do you think they get in here?  hey, scully, take a look at this. 
  how do you get down there?   unless he was dragged. 
 and only one way in.  (looking hopefully at scully) ladies first? (scully smiles and shakes her head. mulder sighs and climbs down into the hole. scully follows. they walk into the blue lit tunnels.) which way?  follow that rat. (they do.) (urgent) scully? scully?!  we still dont know by what. (blurred yellow perspective of mulder and scully. they hear a sound and turn the flash light on the cat, who promptly runs away.) i think its a cat. (as they walk through the tunnel, we see the cat watching them and it makes a growl that a lion would be proud to make. blurred yellow perspective again.)) no, *these* cats. which way is out? (scully gasps as a cat leaps from the wall at her face. ga is allergic to cats, so they used a stuffed one. did they film it in shadow? noooo!!!! we get full face shot of the stuffed killer pussy cat on scullys shoulder scratching her face, then lots of nice close ups as mulder battles the skpc and flings it off scully.) come on, scully! (they run down a tunnel pursued by a horde of meowing kitties. mulder starts down one tunnel, but scully urges him into another.) can you reach up in there?  lets pull him down. (they pull bilacs body onto the floor, then mulder boosts scully into the vent, turns to see cats gnawing on bilac, then crawls in himself. they emerge into the room where they had originally left bilac, slam and lock the vent, then run out of the room. meowing continues behind the metal door.)  okay, i will call you back later.  what about the cats?  well, we both saw them down there, scully. we know theyre down there.  well, by then it wont even matter.  i just got off the phone with the assistant secretary of states office. theyve called in the ecuadorean ambassador.  five people had to die but they're finally taking it seriously.   no. bilac's letter of protest. the state department has asked that the museum remain closed until they can act officially on it.  the urn will be back in ecuador by the end of the week.separator eleventh time, actually. there were three in seattle, three in los angeles and two in boston, all chinese men between the ages of 20 and 40. all recent immigrants.  lucky? thats an interesting word for it. 
 you got any leads on this case, detective? any thoughts or ideas?  you got anybody that can read or speak chinese?  will you get him? i want to see if he can, uh, read this for me.  hi.  there's something written up here on the ceiling. i was wondering if you could read it.  ghost?  i don't know, but it's something strange for a man being burned alive to write, don't you think?  what's this? does anybody recognize this? looks like some kind of foreign currency.  is it worth anything?  where would i get this hell money?  that's good. maybe we just found a way to identify the body. how many dishes do you have to break before your boss tosses you in an oven?  why would he write the character for "ghost" on the inside of the crematory oven?  what about the guard seeing three figures that seemed to vanish without a trace?  who you gonna call? ghosts or ancestral spirits have been central to chinese spiritual life for centuries.  well that would sure teach him to respect his elders, wouldnt it? (chao comes out of the apartment and joins them on the landing. what does it say?  can you copy it down for me?  (walking into the apartment) talk about tacky. (mulder and scully look around the apartment.) what's that smell?  (pulling up a corner of the carpet) looks like they saved some money on carpet tacks and didnt even bother to replace any of the old padding. (scully opens a desk drawer and pulls out a small white bag with chinese lettering on it.) (still looking under carpet) looks like mr. lo could have used a little of both. (scully and chao look where mulder has pulled up the carpet far enough to expose a large bloodstain.) lets get this blood tested. what had the victim been using?  ask her if she knows hes dead.  ask her if she recognizes those characters that were painted on his door.  haunted? you mean by ghosts?  you think these murders could be related?  is this a newly dug plot?  chinese?  something just occurred to me.  looks like somebody was trying to get two burials for the price of one. what did you find?  what was wrong with him?  nothing? what do you mean?  depends on the body.  i don't know. a few bucks. how much?  you're saying that this guy was selling his body parts for money?  he won't be cashing any social security checks any time soon.  scully, even if you're right, it doesn't figure. there's no long-term business sense to dying. what connection does this have to the crematory deaths?   well, were gonna need more help from you than that, detective.  no.  what's this?  how long have you lived in this country, mr. hsin?  you live here alone? (kim in her bedroom calls out to her father.) thank you, mr. hsin. if we need you, we'll get back to you. okay? thank you. (mulder leads scully out of apartment and into the hall. chao and hsin speak in cantonese.) (watching the two men) ill tell you in a minute. (they watch as chao continues speaking to hsin who is agitated. hsin goes into apartment. chao joins mulder and scully.) what was that about?  (showing chao the tile he picked up) you know what this is?  do you know what it says?  wood?  hes missing his eye and id like to know how he lost it.  i doubt theyre to the ophthalmologist, though. (mulder, scully and chao leave. inside the apartment, kim has gotten out of bed.)  no, im just a little tired, jumpy. one more string of firecrackers goes off, im going to get out of the car and shoot somebody.  no, but im glad youre here cause i was just about to go and ask mr. hsin if i could use his bathroom.  what do you mean?  who cut him?  did anybody see him get up?  can i see his chart?  yeah.  i want to see what his blood type was.  why would he run?  maybe all this heel dragging's a diversion. that ghost story's a ruse. what was the hemotype of the blood we found on the carpet padding?  thank you.  glen chao, o-negative. well, that's a coincidence.  and id be willing to bet that he's the one who asked for it to be installed.  yeah. that conversation they had wasn't about any firetrap. what's your father involved in, kim?  who are these men that come to visit your father?   do you know what this is?  do you know what it says? i found it over there by the tv before.   theyre playing some kind of game. its definitely not chinese food im smelling. (they see a fresh red stain on the floor.) it smells like rubbing alcohol.  whats this? (he removes a plastic tray with several glass jars packed in ice. they look at one of the jars. it contains a human eye.) it sounds like its coming from upstairs. (they run toward the stairs.) chao? hands in the air. hands in the air! (scully passes them, gun out, and goes to check hsin.) what did he say?   can i talk to you for a minute? 
 i just got back from st. francis hospital. hsin's still in intensive care.  i checked with the donor procurement organization. shes been put on the recipient list.  yeah. 
 they put up a wall of silence. they all claim to be members of some social club. that they saw nothing.  he was supposed to testify before a grand jury this morning. when he didn't show, they went to his home. he's vanished. like a ghost. 
separator you don't sound so sure of that.  would you be willing to take a lie detector test to prove that you raped her? 
 well, that's too bad. because the next rape you experience will probably be your own... in prison. 
 are you having trouble sleeping? are you experiencing muscle pains? vision problems? nose bleeds? when you look at a particular object, do you receive the sudden flash that you're actually looking at something else? an alien's face?  the description of the aliens, the physical exam, the mindscan, the presence of another human being that appears switched off, it's all characteristic of a typical abduction.  yeah, if it were only one person, scully, but we have two individuals here, each verifying the other's story. 
 you still going to hold the boy?  but the victim seems to confirm his alibi.  how did the alien respond?  what was the other alien, the gray, what was it doing during all this. 
 telepathically?  because the other alien was conducting torturous experiments on you?  then what?  he said it happened before the abduction. so what if they had sex?  so you're saying that all this is just a case of sexual trauma?  why don't you tell us what happened that night?  why is that?  what did these men look like?  all in black? (roky stares at him, then looks at scully, then slumps back slightly, staring at mulder.) since the '50s, people who have had close encounters have reported subsequent visits by these unearthly men in black. (scully seems like she thinks this is all ridiculous. jose chung talks over the scene.) if we have any more questions, where can we find you?  " i sat in my stalled truck, frozen in terror, watching as this third alien attacked the other two gray aliens. and then it happened, the thing that forever changed my life... 
 "...thee. before i knew it, i was aboard the hover vessel and was not heading into outer space, but inner space, heading towards the earth's molten core. for that is the domain of the third alien, whose name, he soon told me... was lord kinbote." 
 i'm not saying he isn't delusional, i'm just suggesting that his delusional state was triggered by something he actually witnessed that night. and the first part of his story verifies the boy's version. in fact, the only version that doesn't add up is the girl's. 
 i'm going to arrange to have her re-hypnotized.  to see if what she remembers is really what she remembers. 
 air force?  no, i think you're wrong about that, scully. but i do think you're right about one thing, that this case might not have anything to do with aliens. 
 lieutenant jack schaffer? 
 or on visitors from outer space?  they experience "missing time."  but abductions?  but what do you do with the abductees?  hypnosis. 
 but if abductions are just a covert intelligence operation and ufos are merely secret military airships, piloted by aliens such as yourself... then what were you abducted by?  what do you mean?  i can only assure you that i do.  wait a minute, wait a minute. it can't all be fake memory implantations. what about that third alien? what, what was that thing?  sweet potato pie. 
 you ever seen a ufo in these parts? 
 you ever experienced a period of "missing time?" you ever had the suspicion that you've been abducted by aliens?have you ever found a metal implant in your body?have you checked everywhere?
 scully? where's scully? where is she?! scully, what's going on here? similar things are said about the men in black. that they purposely dress and behave strangely so that if anyone tries to describe an encounter with them, they come off sounding like a lunatic.  i told you, you didn't let me in. they were already here. 
 they don't want assistance. they want witnesses to their alibi. 
 thanks. 
 don't write this book. you'll perform a disservice through a field of inquiry that has always struggled for respectability. you're a gifted writer, but no amount of talent could describe the events that occurred in any realistic vein because they deal with alternative realities that we've yet to comprehend. and when presented in the wrong way, in the wrong context, the incidents and the people involved in them can appear foolish, if not downright psychotic.i also know that your publishing house is owned by warden white, incorporated... a subsidiary of macdougall-kesler, which makes me suspect a covert agenda for your book on the part of the military-industrial-entertainment complex. what's that?  how the hell should i know? 
separator i'm looking for detective waltos?  my name is mulder. i work with assistant director skinner. i'd like to speak with him. 
 why don't you just get a statement here?   yeah. 
 yeah, it appears to be a little more complicated than that. it seems like he had a front-row seat.  i don't understand it either. they're not letting me talk to him. hold on a second. 
  excuse me, sir?  detective? detective? detective?  can you at least tell me what happened? what does he say happened?  you don't believe him?  what about the victim? has she been identified?  well, there must be evidence of an intruder of some kind.  well, then, if you know the drill, then you should be canvassing hotel employees, housekeeping ...  detective?  when you're done questioning him, i'd appreciate a call.  get any of that?  no, no, i want you to take a look at that body. get down to the coroner's. i'll meet you there. 

 beyond what?  were skinner's the only prints lifted from the body?  at least they were having safe sex.  yeah. her name was carina sayles. she was a legal secretary for one of the criminal defense firms here in town.  yeah, i just got off the phone with one of the partners. she was fired a few weeks ago over an indiscretion.  yeah, she was doing some moonlighting. she was taking a little work on the side for one of the firm's clients.  this client operated an escort service. she was a prostitute.  i'll get the car.  scully:  addendum: observed what appears to be a residual phosphorescence around the victim's mouth and nose. note to have this analyzed.  lorraine kelleher?  busy or not, we need to speak with her. 
 i think you mean "banging." 
 oh, that's all right. i don't think she's gonna be making that meeting.  she's dead. she was murdered last night.  that's what we're still trying to determine.  i guess that would hurt future book sales, huh?  no, i don't think i would be.  look, we just need one name from you. who hired carina sayles?   cut the crap. who hired her?  then you have his name.  thank you. 

 what the hell was he thinking?  you'd think he'd be a little more discrete.  still, not enough to prove anything conclusively.  you really believe skinner did this?  credit card fraud happens every day.  we know that he's put his ass on the line for us a number of times. we owe it to him to find out what really happened.   yeah, mulder. thank you.   detective waltos. skinner's been released on his own recognizance. sir? sir?  of course it concerns us.  does it explain why you refused to take a polygraph test? or why there's a prostitute in the morgue with your fingerprints all over her? 
 ask me what?  no. i don't think he did it. yeah.  well, i don't know what you do down in norfolk, but last time i checked, rifling through a man's office was considered an invasion of privacy.  what do you mean?  what case? he hasn't even been charged yet.  for what? in case we might turn up any evidence that might support his innocence?  skinner's not answering his phone.  yeah. why? he knows better than that. the evidence is still circumstantial at best. 
 the man's marriage is breaking up. he's stressed out, you know, he's ...   please. give him the benefit of the doubt.  when i mentioned that hooker to him, he didn't even seem to know.  what do you mean? either he remembers or he's a liar.  night terrors?  it's fascinating, but what does it have to do with skinner?  for running away from trains?  so you think that skinner may have killed the victim in his sleep?  and it's not such a strange story.  it's ancient, actually. you may have heard it, although not in such clinical terms. in the middle ages, a visitation like the one skinner described would have been attributed to a succubus. it's a spirit that visits men in the night, usually in the form of an old woman. 
 usually. though sometimes the succubus becomes so attached to the man that she would kill any woman competing for his affection. here. 
 reports of residual luminous phenomena have been associated with some succubus encounters, at least according to the mythology. why?  this phosphorescence required no uv or infrared light?  did you get a sample?  and? 
 what'd they say?  are you sure you saw something?   maybe that's it. maybe that's why skinner's running. he's afraid.  that he doesn't know he didn't do it. the c.t. scan showed a subdural hematoma. she's in surgery right now to relieve pressure on her brain. scully's trying to get more information.  you can't do that, sir.  not yet. but they're building a pretty convincing case.  no, i don't, but i'm in the minority.  scully ...  scully doesn't understand why you're not trying to defend yourself.  what about the old woman in your dream. who is she? it's gonna come out.  look, if you don't start trusting someone, you don't stand a chance.  again?  yeah, you were the sole survivor. you also described what sounded like a near-death experience.  that's when you first saw her?  and why not?   so you just dismissed her as another hallucination?  but you couldn't?  well, maybe she was trying to protect you. maybe she's trying to protect you now.  that's a question only you can answer.  this is skinner's car?  woltos' people finish going over the interior?  can i borrow your flashlight?  i'll meet you there.  collecting evidence. your car hits something, a bag fills with air and you don't die.  it doesn't look like a face.  how long does that fine-tuning take?  i'm not the only one who needs it.  hello.  hello.  what happened, where's skinner?  they dismissed him?  and they used us to do it, didn't they? they used the x-files.  because i think skinner's been out-maneuvered, scully. they found a weakness and they're exploiting it.  to put us in check. you remove skinner and you weaken us. 
 this is the man that stole skinner's car last night and tried to kill his wife.  well, they already tried that once, and a second attempt would be too obvious, even for these thugs. anyway, i think skinner's probably worth more to them alive in disgrace than dead and buried.  i don't know. danny couldn't find anything on him. he's still running it.  well, this guy's a pawn. pawns always make the first move.   what happened here?  he got to her first. 
 is this the man who hired carina?  he lied. skinner's not the only person he set up.  i need you to arrange a meeting.  unfortunately, lorraine can't get to the phone right now.  look what he did to your friends. we're your only chance of coming out of this ok.  i want you to call him. tell him you're scared because we questioned you. tell him you want money to get out of town.  you'll meet him at the ambassodor hotel bar. ok? 
 no, he hasn't shown up yet.  this guy isn't about to let a little rain stop him. 
 scully, what's going on? 
 he's upstairs. 

 you ok?  yeah, there's something else you'll find missing in there.  an explanation for how you knew to be at the hotel last night. i was hoping you could fill in that line item yourself.  why not?  then why don't you tell me? off the record. 
separator did you really have to bring that thing?  i think i'm lost anyway. i've got to stop and ask for directions.  dr bailey works for the us forestry service. that makes his disappearance a federal case.  dr bailey's not the first person to go missing from heuvelman's lake recently. two weeks ago, a boy scout troop was out here, fox hunting, their troop leader wandered off to relieve himself, and hasn't been seen or heard from since.  the operative word being large.  what makes you think i'm leaving anything out?  dr farraday, you know the wildlife living around this lake just as well as anybody, don't you?  are you aware of any indigenous species that's capable of attacking a human being?  aside from that, is there a creature that comes to mind...  okay then. in your work have you come across any evidence that lends support to the existance of this creature they call big blue?  what?  i'll take that rambling diatribe to mean that you don't believe in the existance of such a creature.  a prehistoric animal living in a lake is not without presidence. last august they pulled a bull shark from lake onaga in massasteuchusts.  careful, watch out where you're walking. watch out...watch out for those tracks.  any sign of ted bertram?  just until we figure out what's going on here.  but you've got two or three in as many weeks, i'd say you're a little outside your bell curve, sheriff.  what about these tracks?  that's what it looks like.  yeah, but what happened to the hoaxer? 
 well, if this is a hoax, it's quite elaborate.   twenty feet from shore, and twice in one day?  what about ted bertram?  oh, is that the psychological approach to crime solving? he's too embarrased?  this roll's been exposed, can you get that developed?  that's three in one day, sheriff. all this driving from crime scene to crime scene's giving me highway hypnosis. close down the lake.  look at this, could this be a tooth?  there's thousands of pictures here, scully. there's got to be some evidence here somewhere. take a look at these.  that could be something.  want me to come with you?  goodnight, i'll see you in the morning.  i'm sorry about queequeg. you know, i think i've learned something from these photos.   they're not pictures of the lake monster, they're pictures of the lake. locations where the fish has been sighted over the past several years. look, five years ago, all the sightings occured in the centre of the lake. but progressively the sightings have moved closer and closer to shore, until this year, they're practically on the shore.  which part?  can you drive a boat? we are fishing.  you want to head right...here.   i know the difference between expectation and hope. seek and ye shall find, scully.  i got a map of new york city just like that.  it ain't low gas.  here be monsters, scully.  yep, that's what it looks like.   i say we swim to shore.  yeah, the shore can't be too far from here.  when you're living in the city you forget that night is actually so...dark.  that was him scully, that was big blue.  what do you mean, what are we doing here?  scully, some of the things that we investigate are so intangible but this creature it exists within the specific earthly confines of this lake, and i want to find it.  you're a scientist, why do you ask that question? i mean, it would be a marvelous discovery, it could revolutionize our evolutionary biological thinking.  a tooth?  i heard him joke that he was hoping to live off the copyrights fees of a genuine big blue photo.  you don't think my reasons are legitimate?  i'm still tempted to fire. hey scully, you think you could ever cannibalize someone? i mean if you really had to.  you've lost some weight recently haven't you?  though it is amazing what some animals will do to guarantee the continuation of a species isn't it? a creature of this size must have adapted its behavior over the years to minimize its chances of being seen by its only predator, us. its coming closer to shore must have been an act of desperation on its part.  why did you name your dog queequeg?  it's a bizarre name for a dog, huh?  scully, are you coming on to me?  you know, its interesting you should say that, because i've always wanted a peg leg. it's a boyhood thing i never grew out of. i'm not being flippant, i've given this a lot of thought. i mean. if you have a peg leg or hooks for hands then maybe its enough to simply keep on living. you know, braving facing life with your disability. but without these things you're actually meant to make something of your life, achieve something earn a raise, wear a necktie. so if anything i'm actually the antithesis of ahab, because if i did have a peg leg i'd quite possibly be more happy and more content not to be chasing after these creatures of the unknown.  no, flippant is my favourite line from moby dick. 'hell is an idea first born on an undigested apple dumpling', huh?  i don't know, but it ain't no duck.   actually it sank.  what's in the sack?  the frogs.  the unexplained depletion of frogs originates from this cove. it's the food chain.  food chain. if you alter one life form in an ecosystem, the rest is necessarily affected, either by an increase or decrease. so if an aquatic dinosaur's diet consisted primarily of frogs, then if those frogs suddenly became scarce, it would have to search for an alternative food source.  this creature lives here in this cove. that explains the disappearance of these frogs, for which you have no explanation, ludicrous or not. as well as the recent human attacks.  i'm talking about a prehistoric creature that's gone unnoticed for virtually thousands of years. if it knows how do anything, it knows how to hide. they say that the loch ness monster doesn't even live in the water, that it lives in the surrounding cliffs. maybe big blue has an inland habitat, somewhere in the rocks, or in this dense forest here.  where'd this happen?  no, we need those men here, searching this cove and these woods.  sweep this cove. it's here in striker's cove.   thanks.  dr farraday.  what happened?  did you see it?  where'd it go?  how's dr farraday?  i'm fine.  yeah, but i still don't have that peg leg.  i know. i guess i just wanted big blue to be real. i guess i see hope in such a possibility. separator our blind date's not off to a good start. i've been waiting here nearly two hours.  it's just you, me, and the drug dealers.  especially when congress is in session. what's this? follow where?  what do you mean, that's all you have for me? i get an anonymous e-mail to come meet you here in the middle of the night, i don't know who you are or what you want.  then you're just a messenger boy?  who told you to contact me? how do i know i'm not being played?  well, then you can go ahead and recycle that, then.  multiple homicide, a bizarre one. that's joseph patnik. he murdered five people, all of whom he insists was the same man.  well, he claims to have been killing the same man over and over again, that he wouldn't die.  not that i know, but i only just got this case yesterday.  in patnik's neighborhood two weeks ago, a baby-sitter attacked the two children she was minding. she told the police she thought they were wolves.  not so far, no. 
 doctor stroman, this is my partner, special agent scully. 
 have you?  he seems pretty manageable to me. 
 who called you down on this case?  could we speak to him?  came from an outside source.  i don't know.  we've got dead bodies and confessed murderers. if we're being used, it's to find out the connection. that's what i'm interested in. isn't this a school day?  you got a pass to come in here and eat these people's food and watch their tv?   well, maybe you should head back to school. no, no, no, use the front door.
 anything good?  between what he saw and what he recorded and what he did?  i just watched thirty-six hours of bernard shaw and bobbie batista. i'm about ready to kill somebody too. 
 what's on the tapes? 
 the same guy that started patnik screaming in the psych ward? 
 so you think that because patnik saw this war criminal on television, he was somehow inspired to go out and murder these people?  yeah, but those studies are based on the assumption that americans are just empty vessels ready to be filled with any idea or image that's fed to them like a bunch of pavlov dogs and go out and act on it.  they, studies have also shown causal connections between cow flatulence and the depletion of the ozone layer. what you're talking about is pseudo-science used to make political book.  how?  all i know is television does not make a previously sane man go out and kill five people, thinking they're all the same guy. not even "must-see tv" could do that to you.  i can't. not yet. 
 i'm going to get some sleep. looks like you could use some too.  you have fun. yes. i understand. all right. i've just been watching the tapes. i'll come outside. right. okay. no, she doesn't. no. goodbye.
 scully?  i just got a call. there's been another murder.  it happened just less than an hour ago. it seems to match our pattern, a housewife gone berserk.  no. uh, i went out, and i got a paper this morning. why?  okay, thanks, detective.  she looked out the window and claims she saw her husband in the hammock... with a blonde. 
 yeah, apparently, he was only taking a nap with his dog... but mrs. riddock swears she looked out the window and saw her husband in the hammock with a blonde woman.
 this is not even her husband. her husband's a long-haul trucker. he's been out of town for the last ten days. mister john gillness, it's her next-door neighbor. she didn't even have the right backyard. helene riddock lives over here. scully? "a thing of beauty is a joy forever..." what do you think, scully?  as it does in almost every american home, but television does not equal violence. i don't care what anybody says... unless you consider bad taste an act of violence.
 hang on a second. i'll be right back.hey! hey!hey!
 i'm coming down. 
 i found a cable trapper scrambler running from the pole into the house.  yeah, i'll do it. it makes more sense for you to go down and interview helene riddock. get her version of the story. maybe she knows what this thing is.is there a problem with that? stay in touch. 
 what does this one block?  then what does it do?  i bet all you guys were officers in the audio-visual club in high school, huh?  looks the same.  still looks the same.  so they're different. so... they're different. yeah, you click it on, you have a picture.  what kind of information?  well, can you take it apart?  this device is emitting a signal. mulder. 
 i was just about to call you. look, i'm on my way back. you may have been right, scully, at least partly. i think there is a foreign signal being introduced into these people's homes through the television set.scully, are you there? i think they may be running some kind of test. scully, did you hear what i just said?
 yeah. 
 i didn't take it over to pendrell.  look, i'd, i'd rather talk about it when we get on the land line, okay? we've dealt with these kind of people before. we know what they're capable of. 
 what was what? 
 scully, is there something wrong?  scully, look, i'm going to be right there, okay? don't go anywhere. don't... 
 here, she's in here. ready? 
 wait... get back, call the police.scully! scully!
 mrs. scully, hi, it's fox mulder. 
 i was hoping that you'd heard from dana. 
 i'm... i'm not exactly sure. there's... there's some confusion here. she's missing.
 well, she ran off last night. um... we, we, we're looking for her as best we can... ...but we are a little concerned. look, mrs. scully, i hate to do this to you, but i got to hang up on you right now. 
 hang by the phone. i will call you as soon as i know something. sir, can i have a word with you?this manhunt is being conducted as if we're searching for an escaped convict. i appreciate that, but these officers should be instructed not to confront her once they find her.  just to keep an eye on her till i can get there. i think i can get her to listen to me.  that's because she's not responsible for her own actions. she's suffering from some kind of paranoid psychosis.  i can't explain the exact mechanism, but it has something to do with certain videotapes we watched that we recovered from a crime scene.  videotapes that contain an electronic signal that somehow induces violent behavior.  i'm working on that.  mulder. 
 what is it? 
 what am i looking at? 
 bring it home, boys.  mind control?  the naked lady in the ice cube.  why wasn't i affected? 
 this, uh... subliminal signal, could color be a factor in it? 
 i'm red-green color blind.  mulder. ...affects only a small percentage of the male population. i'll be right there. 
 maryland state police. they think they've found scully. 
 no, um... they think maybe i should come down and i.d. the body. 
 i can't talk to you right now.  that's an interesting choice of words. my partner may be dead.  the hell it isn't! we're here because of you! 
 who are you, who do you work for?  who?  let me do that. it's not her.somebody has to call her mother. she's not answering her phone? 
 mrs. scully, is she here?  you haven't been answering your phone.  i need to see her.  sorry. where is she?
 i'm here to help you, scully. 
 i'm on your side, you know that.  scully, listen to me very carefully. you don't know it, but you're sick with the same thing that drove those other people to murder... and whatever you think may be happening... 
 scully, you are the only one i trust. 
 how you feeling?  now you know how i feel most of the time.  i'm not surprised. i did some checking. joseph patnik thought he was murdering a bosnian war criminal, a man the media described as a modern-day hitler. it turns out both patnik's parents were holocaust survivors. helen riddock was scared her husband was going to be unfaithful to her. you see a pattern developing here? what if this, this video signal somehow turned these people's anxieties into some kind of dementia? yeah, a, a virtual reality of their own worst nightmares?  what do you mean?  ah, maybe not.  well, somebody's behind this, we just don't know who.  i don't know. why don't you try to get some rest?doctor lorenz? what, uh, course of treatment have you outlined for agent scully?  that didn't seem to be the case last night.  you think that would account for her strange behavior?  doctor lorenz, uh... would you have made a diagnosis of amphetamine abuse for someone in agent scully's condition? thank you. braddock heights. yeah, i need the number for frederick county psychiatric hospital, please.
 yeah, this is fox mulder with the federal bureau of investigation. i need to talk to doctor stroman, please. 
 you know where i can reach him? 
 is it 555-0135? 
 thank you. you want me to go first this time?  you charge for local calls?  you'd have a record of all calls made...  thanks. thank you.hey, danny, it's mulder. i need you to check a number for me. now that you've destroyed all the evidence.  i just didn't know i was working for you.  why kill them if you wanted me to expose them? 
 and uncover what? what were they trying to do, manipulate people's behavior? alter their decision making-process? what to buy, who to vote for?  where will they stop? 
 don't lay this off on me, you sneaky son of a bitch. you pulled me into this situation because you didn't have the courage to reveal the truth yourself.  you're a coward! you work in the shadows, you feed me scraps of information, hoping that i can piece it together. you make me risk my life, you risk my partner's life and you never risk your own! you're not walking away from this.
 yes, sir.  no, sir. 
 he remains an unknown subject. 
separator you're the 1st medic on the scene?  can you tell me what happened?  my name is fox mulder, i'm an fbi agent. i understand you've been read your rights will you talk to me mr muntz? can you tell me what happened?  how do you mean?  talked to him?  the shooter described a man, a man who reached down and healed with the palm of his hand.  they let him leave the scene?  he's vanished?  all the cars in the parking lot have been accounted for?  mulder.  yeah.  what is it?  quonochautaug? i'm on my way. she's cold. [pulls a blanket and puts it over her]  mom..  how did she get here?  mom. [she wakes up] hi. it's ok, everything's gonna be ok. [she makes a gesture like she wants to write] what what is it? what do you want?  palm? [mulder's mom is loaded up in an ambulance that leaves the hospital]  thanks.  yeah. i'm.. i just can't help thinking there's a correlation.  a connection to the shooting at the fast food restaurant.  my mother wrote the word palm, that's what the man who healed the victim, that's what he used, the palm of his hand. [scully gives a look]you..you think it's a leap?  why the word palm?  but you can't explain it exactly, nor can it be explained how the wounded were miraculously healed or how the man who healed them just vanished into the air, can it?  i'm gonna go back to d.c..  i wanna find out who this miracle man is. this is everything shot by the 1st news crews at the scene. [slips a tape into a vcr] outtakes and unedited footage.  hey he's gone.where did he go? [hits the rev button and plays it again] you see that?  looks like he's gone but there's..somebody else in his place, wearing the same clothes.  why don't you find out ? [hands the remote control to scully]  if i told you, you'd never let me go.  call me if you find anything . [leaves the room] what?  what are you talking about?  did you take this?  i don't know. did he hurt her?  what did they argue about?  you must have some idea or else you wouldn't have followed them here.  on the day my parents divorced, my mother vowed never to set foot in the summer house again, i know my mother, she kept her word.  i have no idea what that could be.  no. [mulder leaves, close-up in x' face] i want the smoking man smoked out, i want him exposed as the murdering son of a bitch that he is.  to our summer house, he was there with my mother. [shows them the pictures] he's the reason for what happened to her.  it *doesn't* matter where i got those, the only thing that matters is that *that* man is called to answer, now i want his name!  you know how to get it.  well then you tell me how to find him.  he knows about the man who disappeared from the restaurant shooting.  he's trying to kill him.  what?  where is he now?  mr smith?  i'm with the fbi. i'd like you to come with me  i'm sure you don't want to cause a scene at work, sir.  we'll have plenty of time to talk sir. [smith rushes and falls down with other people ahead] [when mulder thinks he grabbed him, it's a beard man, the man next isn't smith either] you see him?  will she regain consciousness?  thank you. [mulder shuts the door] [he sits at his mother's bed side, and starts to cry. he takes her hand and puts it on his face.. he's crying and put his head on the bed] you wanna smoke that, or do you wanna smoke on this?  i should shoot you right here, but they probably would be able to save you.  or maybe shoot a bullet through your brain so you'd be bedridden on a bed for the rest of your life.  what do you care?  i don't care.  and i know what you are looking for.  liar!  where is she? where is she?  i have what you want. cigarette-smoking man: there's nothing i want agent mulder, except to see how your mother's doing. [goes to a nurse in the background, we hear "how's mrs mulder"] yes.  i can't do that.  and to you?  why?  it's a weapon, isn't it? used to pierce the back of a neck. it's the only way we can kill them.  why do you want it ?  let me get clear on something here, what we're talking about is colonization. the date is set, isn't it?  no. [walks away] x punches mulder and they get into a fist fight, pretty nasty, mulder bleeds, they finally both reach for their guns and are holding each other at gun point] you shoot me and you'll never find it.  i'm walking, away.  scully it's me.  i've been up with my mother, listen to me.  who?  alright scully, you gotta get out of your apartment, they're gonna be looking for him, i want you to meet me.  off the i-95, uh bond mill road. scully! scully move away from him, come stand behind me.  how do i know you're for real?  first i want you to come somewhere with me. i want you to come with me to see my mother. [another car arrives, it's the alien hitman] [he's approaching]