 what happened?  where is he? (albert shakes his head. eric walks out, his face looking horrible. scully has a look of sadness on her face. she runs down to the boxcar to find smoke still pouring out of the opening. she looks around.)mulder!(seeing no one, she looks ready to cry.) where's agent mulder?  in the trunk. 
 i don't have it!  agent mulder. 
 i've told you everything i know. to the best of my knowledge, agent mulder is dead.  who are these people? 
 what they're doing is putting an official stamp on the perpetuation of a lie.  what about the people who were poisoning agent mulder's water? whose protocol was that?  the investigation will be an exercise! the men who killed agent mulder, the people who killed his father, they aren't meant to be found.  with all due respect, sir, i think you overestimate your position in the chain of command. 
 hi, mom.  they, uh, they started to give me blisters s, so...  oh, mom... 
 i've made a terrible mistake. dad would be so ashamed of me. for now. 
 no.  it's okay. that was weird. thank you. 
 yes, sir. i came across a news article. a man's body was found in new jersey and i have reason to believe that he was killed by the same man responsible for agent mulder.  the date of death postdates agent mulder's disappearance. now, you already have the ballistics data from agent mulder's father on file. i would like you to run it against the ballistics from this man's case.  well, if both men were killed by the same weapon, we could prove that agent mulder didn't kill his father and it could also help us find the man who did.  yes, i know that, sir. i just thought this might be helpful. 
 you don't want to check?  i was just trying to cooperate with your investigation, sir.  no. i just want answers.  i don't have it.  i believe so.  is that all, sir?  i'm just curious about something, would you mind if i went through here again?  would you mind running the wand over me one more time?  no, not today.  what do you think it could be?  i don't know how it could have gotten there. 
 yeah. thanks for coming down here and doing this for me so late.
 it looks like a computer chip.  i don't even know how long its been in there. i have absolutely no recollection of it being put there. 
 i don't have access to the f.b.i. labs.  hmmm... 
 melissa...  no! 
 you came to see me today.  you came to my apartment, i assumed you wanted to see me about something.  i saw you come out of my building. 
 mrs. mulder?  i'm dana scully, i work with your son. um... i know what you may have heard from the f.b.i. but i have a very strong feeling that your son is going to be found.
 i think he's still alive.  i just have a very strong feeling. i promise i'll let you know as soon as i do. about?  who are you?  what kind of interests?  threatened enough to murder?  what do you know about mulder?  you're lying.  what are you here for?  leave me alone.  you said there were two ways.  why, why kill me?  why are you protecting me?  you're not protecting me, you're protecting yourself.  what kind of business are you in?  hello?  hi.  i, uh, i had to go to boston... for a funeral.  why?  missy, something strange happened to me today. i'm... i'm a bit freaked out by it.  yeah, yeah, i will.  bye.  hi. come on, come on, come on...
 missy, it's me. please pick up. missy? missy, pick up...i'm coming over to your place instead. i'll, i'll, uh, i'll look for you on the way. bye.
 i was just going over to my sister's.  where are we going?  after you. eyes forward. put your hands where i can see them. don't turn around or i'll blow your head off.don't think i won't do it, you son of a bitch. take two steps forward. now move slowly towards the couch.turn around and sit down on your hands.
 i know why you're here. i want to know who sent you. whose errand boy you are.  you got the rest of your life to give me answers. how high does it go, skinner? who's pulling the strings?  what's the alternative? let you kill me now?  you're lying. separator you're lying.  no way.  i said no! you're setting me up!  then put your weapon down and sit down.  you said you weren't here to kill me, skinner, now prove it.  damn it, skinner! 
 yeah.  i was warned that somebody would kill me... someone i trusted.  give me the tape.  where?  mulder, i am...  i went to your father's funeral. i told your mother that you were going to be okay.  i just knew. 
 do you recognize any of these men?  what did he do?  what would he be doing in a photo with your father?  whatever happened to klemper?  what, what is it?  i have to go there, mulder.  that bullet was meant for me.  those bastards...  because it escaped you or because you escaped it?  history may be the only justice you'll ever know.  as a nazi or for the blood money we paid you?  for a lot of innocent jews.  yes, why?  what do you think your father would have been doing here?  mulder, take a look at this. what do you think? it's not working here either. 
 positive. napier's constant is the basis of all natural logarithms.  mulder... no, wait, hang on a second. whatever we find in here... i don't think you've had time to process everything that you've been through. you weren't even able to go to your father's funeral and if something in here were to cast doubt on the kind of man he was... i, i just know how it would affect me. 
 what kind of deal?  an extremely elaborate filing system of medical records.  i think we should let him make the deal, mulder. look... those answers mean nothing if we're going to be hunted down like animals. we are operating so far outside of the law right now, we've given up on the very notion of justice. we've turned ourselves into outsiders. we have lost our access and our protection. then what good are those answers to anybody but you, mulder?  look, i want exactly what you want. but i need to see my sister. 
 i told skinner to make the deal. but not to hand over the tape until you agree to it.  i just need to know if she's going to be okay. 

 it happened three hours ago. she went into surgery and, uh... the damage to her brain was worse than they had hoped. her blood pressure started to rise and, uh... she slipped away. she died for me and i tried to tell her i was sorry but i don't think she'll ever really know.
 you were right. there is no justice.  then what is it about?  i need something to put my back up against.  i've heard the truth, mulder. now what i want are the answers. 
separator both eardrums are ruptured. cataracts over both eyes. probably heat-induced.  well, there is extensive charring along the sternum with concomitant rib fractures consistent with electrocution or exposure to high voltage direct current. but i see no point of contact.  did you find contact wounds on any of the other five victims?  are you aware that something like 60 people die from lightning strikes across the country each year and five of those happened right here in connerville?  yes, im agent scully.   these deaths match other cases of multiple fatalities attributed to lightning with the same inconclusive forensic evidence.  yes, i know a little.  no, i didnt know that.  i dont understand.  i didnt know that either.  with all due respect, sir, these autopsies dont quite add up.  based on my opinion as a medical doctor.  well, since there is no other explanation right now, id have to concur with the coroner that lightning is the most probable cause of death.   feel free to jump in anytime.   do you have a theory on whats going on here?  mulder, wait. what are you expecting to find here?   could you stop for a second, please?  look, after everything that weve just been through, after all that weve just seen, i hope youre not thinking this has anything to do with government conspiracies or ufos.  well, what are you looking for? i mean, just because a forensic profile isnt cut and dried doesnt mean its not true.  the only possible scientific conclusion is that jack hammond was killed by lightning.  what are you talking about?  police found hammond in his car at 17 minutes past midnight. the entire electrical system was shorted out. all the circuitry and wiring had melted.  get away from what?  excuse me.  whats your name?  zero, do you mind if we talk for a minute?  im with the fbi.  were you working here last night?  do you recognize this person?   before the ambulance showed up did you notice anything unusual outside?  did you notice anyone else around who might have seen something?  what?   uh corey huffard, darren oswald, burke roberts and billy ---  darren peter. why?  yes.  mulder.  whats in your pocket? 
 what happened?  what happened here, sheriff?  did they report lightning last night?  mulder, id have to say i think hes right.  well, look at the evidence. what else could it be?  here we go. well, considering its a partial imprint theres a lot of information here.   the tread looks like a standard military boot mens size 8.  well, it says it right here on the bottom.  but i may have something even better. when i was cleaning the imprint to take the mold i found trace amounts of a viscous substance actually imbedded in the fulgurite.  id have to conduct a chemical analysis to be sure, but, uh it looks like antifreeze.  but why? and how?  mulder  weve got a size match.  yeah, but it still doesnt prove that he killed jack hammond. 
 im surprised you havent already read that issue.  who is she?  mm-hmm. theres a yearbook in darrens closet. 
 her name is sharon kiveat.  i just talked to one of the ems workers. he was pretty rattled.  frank kiveats electrocardiogram.  see that spike there? that indicates that some kind of electrical intervention started his heart. except according to the ems worker, the defibrillator wouldnt charge. the paddles were dead.  he didnt. all he saw was darren oswald touching kiveats chest.   he was admitted to the er five months ago in cardiac arrest. respiratory failure. class three burns on the back of his skull resuscitated after hang on, this is odd. his blood test showed acute hypokalemia.  a severe chemical imbalance characterized by high sodium and low potassium levels.  yeah.  well, among other things they generate the electrical impulses in our bodies. like every time our heart beats or a neuron fires.  our body doesnt work like that  youre saying hes some kind of lightning rod?   we just want to talk to you, thats all. just ask you a few more questions.  why did you run when you saw us?  were not so sure.  not much. except that hes a hero.  cpr. he claims he paid attention in health class.  how? by causing kiveats heart attack?  so what? are we supposed to charge him with assaulting a cellular phone?  mulder, look where we are. we dont have the capability or time to perform those tests. and without a confession we can only keep him in custody for 72 hours.  is it okay if we come in? 
 how would you describe your relationship with him?  did you get him the job at your husbands garage?  how did you know it was darren?  well, you dont have to be afraid any more. you and your husband are safe as long as we can count on your testimony. i believe that darren oswald was involved somehow in the deaths of those four people. and i believe it was irresponsible for you to let him go.  in effect.  you said yourself, sheriff, not even science can explain how lightning works. 
 shes on her way to the hospital. 
 sharon?  we need you to come with us right away.  look, we dont have much time. come with us and well tell you everything.  sharon, please. 
 hes dead.  how many other access points to this floor?  mulder!   darren, dont move.  i said dont move. darren.  stop. im warning you.  i want you step back inside that room.  shes not going anywhere with you, darren.  i can hurt you too. im going to give you three seconds. one  sharon, we can work this all out, right here.  i just got off the phone with the coroner. hes ruling tellers death accidental.  they also reported lightning last night. i talked to the da. he has no idea how to begin building a case.  they came in five minutes ago.  nothing unusual was detected, mulder. the electrolytes, the blood gas levels, brain wave activity. based on the science of all the data thats been gathered separator no, nobody does anything without a reason. we've already composed a profile of the killer. we offer possible explanations for the nature of his attacks and also his choice of victims. well, there's a possible connection with all of his victims being professional prognosticators.  i can't take you anywhere. 
 it's too bad about your "negative energy," mulder, you missed quite a performance. 
 he said the killer doesn't feel in control of his own life but that's true of everyone at times.  might as well go home, mulder, this case is as good as solved. 
 who found the body? according to the police report, mister bruckman, you didn't touch the body after you found her.  but you reported that you found a body with its eyes cut out. the body was face down. if you didn't move it, how did you know the eyes had been removed?  mister bruckman, how much have you heard about the recent slayings in town?  how did you know about the entrails? that information hasn't been released to the press. 
 i don't blame you, mister bruckman. 
 this guy's performing the same routine as the stupendous yappi, he's just doing it in a different style.  oh, so now you're psychic? 
 so you can see into him but not at him. i'm sorry, i didn't mean to give any negative energy. is he raping her?  mulder, the human mind naturally seeks meaningful patterns and configurations in things that don't inherently have any. given the suggestion of a particular image, you can't help but see that shape somewhere. if that tank weren't there, you'd see it in a, in a rock or in a tree...  yes, it looks like a fat, little, white nazi stormtrooper but that only proves my point.  mulder, that only implies that he was the one who put her in there.  i don't believe he's psychic.  maybe he's just lucky. i was told you were interrogating a suspect but something tells me...  try reading this.  it was found on the woman that was pulled from the lake. identical keychains were found on two of the other victims. i managed to trace the insignia to an investment firm called uranus unlimited. they provide market strategies based on astrological forecasts. and the company is owned by a man named...  as far as i know, that's correct.  in any case, we're trying to get a hold of him.  you get used to it.  you prognosticated buddy holly's death?  well, mister bruckman, i'm not one who readily believes in that kind of thing and if i was, i still wouldn't believe that story.  where's the body?  yes, yes, we do. 
 can you see him physically yet?  what? what do you see?  who's it from? 
 he must've been at the crime scenes, seeing you with us.  studying background checks. this is what detective work is really like. we can't come up with suspects by having visions.  it's something you haven't explained. can you see your own end?  mister bruckman... there are hits and there are misses. and then there are misses. 
 so, ahab mistakes the prophecy and as a result, dies. a similar fate happens to macbeth.  that must be mulder. time for the midnight shift. all right. so how do i die? chantilly lace?  mulder, it's not likely that the killer was wearing anything made out of chantilly lace at the time of the murders.  it's a coincidence.  that's one to pose to the psychic philosopher. good night, mulder. 
 mulder, there's... are you okay?  havez is going to stay with bruckman while we go over to a tarot card reader around the corner. there's been another murder. 
 actually, i'm starting to feel more sympathetic towards him.  well, no, not really. 
 but i am convinced that by thinking he can see the future, he's taken all the joy out of his life. 
 mulder, i found another strand of that silk. 
 it's the bellhop. he's the killer, the bellhop at the hotel!
 havez? mister bruckman?
 drop it! 
 i didn't. i got on the service elevator by mistake. 
 you know, none of bruckman's prophecy came true. the killer didn't get to him first, but he did kill havez.  actually, i don't know. i couldn't find him.  "my neighbor, mrs. lowe, passed away last night. please see that the remains of her remains are taken care of. would you like a dog? he's paper-trained and well-behaved, regardless of his actions last night, which you can't really blame him for." 
separator he was put to death in the electric chair three days ago.  third time's a charm. what's your interest in this?  well, reincarnation has always been popular on death row for obvious reasons.  what do you mean?  has a cause of death been determined?  i see the guards here wear panic devices. was the victim's activated?  what do you mean?  warden?  the body. i think you should take a look. i suggest you get it into refrigeration or you're not gonna have anything left to autopsy. 
 would it be possible to see the cell where the guard was murdered?  did you know neech manley?  what was he like?  how is that?  who do you think killed the guard?  are you afraid at all?  who are you?  i was just looking around.  mulder. i'm ready to go now.  guard!  i'm just ready to get out of here. 
 what did your preliminary exam turn up?  from the eyewitness reports, there were already fly larvae infesting the flesh. that seems unusual considering the short time-of-death window.  in the anaerobic environment inside the paint can?  hmmm. what was determined to be the cause of that death?  well, what if it saves three lives? isn't that a deal worth making?  these aren't prisoners. these are guards you've got being murdered.  i guess you'll be able to finish up that autopsy now, scully. he had quite a library.  looks like neech manley knew his bible.  what's that from?  being obsessed with it doesn't mean you can do it.  like what? the secret password?  i'm sorry, mulder, that's not what i learned in catechism.  do you honestly believe that neech manley came back from the dead to kill those two men?  a very good one, and one much more believable.  or guards.  i only get five?  because of his beliefs? 
 did you catch her body language?  of what? that her husband's gonna keep his word?  you mean she thinks she's on the list?   scully. we're on our way.   that was the warden. there's been another death.  roque. they found him beaten to death in the showers on death row. 
 who found the body?  mulder.  oh, god. 
 mulder, can i have a minute? 
 i've just been going over neech's phone calls over the last two months. over 30 of them were made to a man named danny charez - twice as many as to his own wife.  charez has been here three times to see speranza since the first murder. he could be working with him on the outside. okay then, what's your business with john speranza?  what kind of deal?  you were neech manley's defense lawyer?  why neech's wife?  she has a boyfriend?  a woman gets lonely ... sometimes she can't wait around for a man to be reincarnated. i think we should notify the warden. 

 that's him.  parmelly. 
 yes. i hadn't reported it but that same guard also cornered me and made an overture for prisoner roque.  well, does it make sense to you that parmelly is neech's assassin?  well, according to an attorney we spoke to, he had brandished a gun at the residence.  a man named charez.  you know him?  well, he could be the fifth victim.  she's got a gun on parmelly. center room, facing away.  put it down! put it down!  why are we stopping?  what?  i thought we already went through this.  then he was working with someone. they just haven't found out who.  to use fear as leverage for roque's deal with the warden.  i don't know. maybe parmelly wasn't sticking with the original plan. i'm sure this shacking up with neech's wife wasn't part of it either, or maybe neech's wife killing parmelly was part of the plan from the beginning so that he'd take the truth to the grave with him.  well then, who did? neech manley?  it's over, mulder. let's just go home. 

separator youre not sure?  any indication what would have been the cause of death?   well call you when we find anything else concrete. 
 detective?  mulder, what do you think it is?  disappeared?  mulder, what we just saw was not decomposition.  what about you? where are you going?  its not a problem, is it?   im not observing. im performing it myself.  you sound surprised.  why?  old-fashioned?   like this one?  i appreciate your concern, detective, but its not necessary. all i want to do is solve this case just like you.  where would you like the autopsy report sent?   scully.   how do you know its the same guy?   mulder, id like you to meet me at the coroners office as soon as you can.   theres not going to be an autopsy. its a metacarpal from lauren mackalveys hand. in life, bones have the tensile strength of forged iron. even in death, they remain strong. but look at this. (she squishes the finger with a clamp)  its organic. mostly hydrochloric acid similar to what is secreted by the gastric mugosa.  almost identical only twice as acidic. i also found trace amounts of pepsin which is a digestive enzyme.  i dont know how else to explain such accelerated autolysis.  in some broken-down form, yes.  (looks at him strangely) missing?  i dont think so. (looks at chart) all the body tissues were accounted for . except there were extremely low almost trace amounts of adipose.  what weight discrepancy?  she probably lost weight since the license was issued.  (stumped) what possible motivation could the killer have for removing his victims fatty tissue? i mean, who do you think were dealing with here?   all of the air passages are blocked with what appears to be the same viscous hydrochloric acid we found on lauren mackalvey.   heres something else that might help. the killer should have an identifiable wound pattern from this.   good. we are expanding the search to include the faculty rosters from the local community colleges. we . oh .  excuse me.  im almost done with the list.  and?  well, it says here they didnt find a match.   "the second sample contains no oils or essential fatty acid." well, mulder, there are any number of factors which could have caused that result. where are you going with this?  from a dry skin sample youre concluding what? that hes some kind of fat-sucking vampire?  .which he ingests before the rest of the body dissolves entirely.  yes, scorpions predigest their food outside of their body by regurgitating onto their prey but i dont know too many scorpions who surf the internet.  id like to brief them, if thats okay with you.  mr. brenman? im special agent scully from the fbi. would you mind if i asked you some questions? thanks. (back at incantos apartment, it is actually cross who knocked and is checking on incanto.) (to tech) these are all university addresses. chances are, he spent most of the morning on campus. mulder comes over to scully.) cross hasnt checked in yet. weve been trying his cell phone but theres no answer.  he would have been by sometime this morning. do you remember what time specifically? could you describe him to me for verification? excuse me a minute.  did you find him?  mulder the landladys body --- we found her in the bathroom.  i know this is hard to talk about right now, but i need you to tell me exactly what happened.  your mothers perfume?  and you smelled it in his apartment?  he grabbed you?  what suitcase?  did he say where?  okay, jesse. that helps us. im going to take a couple of minutes and go talk to agent mulder. mrs. sheperd is right here. ill be right back.   yeah?  i dont know, jesse. 
 what about employment records?  he told the girl he was on his way to new york.  what is it?  well, how are we going to track him?  yeah.  and the bad news?  you were right, mulder. theyre coming up empty at the airport. so im releasing the sketch to the media. we still have time to make the morning papers.   "friend?"   we need this scanned and sent to everyone on that list.  im going to call the online service and have them fax us the telephone numbers of all those women.  just lock your doors until we contact you again. youll be fine, miss iniss. he doesnt tend towards forcible entry.   well, weve already contacted everyone on this list directly except for these two.  i left messages on their machines.  mulder . 
 you go ahead. ill stay here. go. 
  this is federal agent dana scully. i need an ambulance right away to 658 south hudson avenue, apartment number 23. request special chemical burn unit. 
 why?  youre more than a monster. you didnt just feed on their bodies. you fed on their minds.  not anymore.   let me out. 
separator what did he start taking away?  and how did he do that?  is something wrong?  excuse me, but is general callahan the superior officer?  assuming we would want to investigate him, who would we talk to?  whatever.  well then we'd like to speak to him on our way out.  ask him to make himself available. tell him that its our protocol. in the mean time, we'd like to finish up with lt. col. stans. you never know when he might try to kill himself again. 
 let's finish this, mulder. 
 i would hope not, considering the extremity to lt. col. stans' case.  yes, so we gathered. but his file is missing several interesting facts that came out of our interview with him.  except for any mention of the death of his wife and two children in a house fire three months ago.  no doubt. but there is no record of any criminal or arson investigation.  not unlike staff sergeant kevin aiklen... isn't that correct, sir?  six months ago, aiklen also lost his family to a house fire. afterwards he received psychiatric treatment for delusional behavior. telling the doctors that he wanted to die, but that somebody wouldn't let him.  that's your conclusion, general. but i'd hope you'll allow us the opportunity to come to our own. 
 no. i think he's got everything to hide.  mulder, i know this isn't what drew you to this case to begin with... 
 but i think it's very clear what's going on here.  the general is protecting his men, but what he's protecting them from is prosecution for the murder of their families.  i don't know. but i can think of several good reasons.  that could be one.  considering the government's complete disavowment of gulf war syndrome, it's a pretty good reason to prevent our investigation. 
 but you're not buying it.  general callahan...  there are bruises around her neck and her shoulder, roughly the size of fingermarks.  the bruises and surrounding edema are consistent with a struggle. will you be contacting her family?  i'm sorry. truly. 
 mulder, you're serious?  that's not so hard to believe. her screams would have been muffled underwater. there would be no fingerprints.  there's someone in the backyard. there was someone out here, i'm sure of it. 
 look. 
 find anything?  well, we've been a bit luckier. whoever startled the general didn't just leave footprints... he left fingerprints as well.  forensics just lifted two matching indexes and a thumb. on the mailbox next to the front door, and one on the door leading into the backyard.  they're on the way to the ncic as we speak. fbi! open the door! 
 mr. freely, you are under arrest for suspicion of murder. you have the right to remain silent. anything you say can and will be used against you in a court of law. 
 if you want an attorney, we will get you one... 
 captain janet draper... staff sergeant kevin aiklen... lt. col. victor stans...  we've got him, mulder. in addition to accessory to murder, you're looking at conspiracy, breaking and entering, commission of a felony on federal property...  we know you weren't acting alone, quentin. we know you had an accomplice.  if that's the man they call rappo.  he's a suspect in two homicides.  how's that? 
 damn it! he lied to us.  i don't know. i'm adding it to the list. are you coming?  not as worked up as i'm going to be. 
 suffocation. the bed sheet was stuffed down his throat.  he did it all by himself.  not likely?  rappo?  he can't even walk, let alone kill somebody.  i know. you've been walking around with that thing since we got here.  from what? 
 what you're saying is this man, rappo, is leaving his body and floating around town killing people?  mulder... then why would he need quintin freely?  that's insane...  you mean, messages recorded backwards in songs?  mr. trimble, we'd like to ask you a few questions about quinton freely.  how's that?  no one's answering and the machine's not picking up. 
 general? 
 general?  he's having some kind of a seizure.  nurse! 
 he's non responsive. 
 come on. 
 put him on monitors and prep the crash cart. he's going into cardiac arrest.  and make sure the team ... 
 lt. colonel! 
 get the keys, we have to open the door. 
 open the door! 
 lt. colonel, open the door! 
separator mulder i got something something weird.  i was going over lucy householders medical work-up and something hit me. her blood type is o-positive.  forensics lifted two blood types off of her work clothes -- o-positive and b -positive. two guesses as to what amy jacobs blood type is.  i dont know, mulder, but it begs the question.  were not talking about the local population. were talking about a woman who is tied to this case who had somebody elses blood on her uniform.  well, well know soon enough.  im running a pcr on her blood to see if theres a dna match.  why?  mulder, ive got a ----  is that lucy?  well, by most yardsticks, she hasnt, mulder.  look, i think weve got a break in the case. a big one.  school pictures were mailed out this week to everyone in amys class except amy. one of eubankss men discovered it.  its an outfit called larken scholastic. now, the photographer checked out but his assistant was fired the day after the shoot a man named carl wade.  dmvs, and old address, but he spent the good part of the past 15 years institutionalized for a bipolar condition. the only thing current we have on him is this photo taken by his employer trying out a new camera.  theyre doing it right now.  mulder, the blood on lucys uniform was an exact dna match. lucy was covered in amy jacobs blood.  mulder, its incontrovertible evidence.   i hate to say this, mulder, but i think you just ran out of credibility.   you are protecting her beyond the point of reason.  did you consider for one minute that the person shes connected to is carl wade?  for the same twisted reason that abused children crave their parents love or hostages develop sympathy for their captors. i mean, maybe lucy developed some kind of emotional dependency.  it makes a lot more sense than the notion that shes bleeding amy jacobs blood.  mulder, you cant ----  then why did she run? if shes innocent, what was she running from?  you dont see what youre doing, do you, mulder? you are so close to this that you just dont see it.  the extreme rationalization thats going on. your personal identification with the victim, or in this case, the suspect. youre becoming an empath yourself, mulder. you are so sympathetic to lucy as a victim like *your sister* that you cant see her as a person whos capable of committing this crime.  but we already stick out like a sore thumb, mulder. if we start canvassing main street somebodys going to pick up the phone to him.  yeah.   mulder!  whats happening? did you find her? 
 shes exhausted, but it looks like shes going to be fine. the doctors want to keep her for a day or two just to be sure.  wade must have left her alone. there were no injuries.  i know, mulder. i cant explain it. she didnt have a cut on her and nobody wants to talk about that right now. everyones just relieved to have her back again to have her safe.  yes. they, uh they brought in the state pathologist last night so i stopped by to get the autopsy reports on my way.  they found five liters of water in her lungs.  mulder  whatever there was between them, you were part of that connection. did you think about that? lucy may have died for amy, but without you, they never would have found her.  what do you mean? separator what are you watching?  that's not your usual brand of entertainment. what is it? you spent money for this?  mulder, this is even hokier than the one they aired on the fox network. you can't even see what they're operating on! well, technically, i don't know why they would be wearing gas masks.  olive oil? snake oil? i suppose you think it's alien blood.  i guess that begs the question, if this is an alien autopsy...  well, what do you want for twenty-nine ninety-five?  and this is real because it doesn't?  who's selling these tapes?  front door's been boarded up.  mulder, in here. he's still warm.
 either they can't locate an interpreter, or the interpreter they located didn't interpret the instructions and got lost somewhere. i don't know which.  somehow, this is a tall request in allentown this time of night.  this is a surprise, sir.  what do you mean?  what about the murder victim or the paperwork?  i don't know, mulder, it just doesn't track. what would a japanese diplomat be doing in that house with a dead man with his head stuffed in a pillowcase?  well, what do you want to do now, drop it?  what are you doing?  what are those?  what would he be doing with a list of mutual ufo network members in the greater allentown area with the name betsy hagopian circled?  what are you going to do? (he folds up the papers and stuffs them into the satchel.) hi, betsy hagopian?  is there some way that i can get in touch with her? i'm sorry, um...my name is dana scully. no, i think you must be mistaken.  i'm, i'm afraid i'm not who you think i am.  one what?  there must be some kind of mistake, i, i work for the f.b.i., and i'm here conducting a murder investigation.  a man named steven zinnzser was murdered about two miles from here.  did you know him?  but you understand, i'm, i'm not a member, i'm an f.b.i. agent.  but at the door, you said that i was one of you. 
 why did you ask me that?  but i've never met any of you. i, i've never seen any of you before in my life. 
 taken? uh, taken where?  i don't know.  what men?  yes, i'm...  i'm sorry. i don't think i'm ready to discuss this. 
 but why is it that i don't remember you?  how do you know that you're not mistaking me for somebody else? 
 what mark?  i really have to go. i just came... yes. to see betsy hagopian. why are you all at her house, where is she? 
 what's wrong with her?  and you think this is the result of her abduction experiences?  what do you mean?  why is the door locked?  do you have any idea where i've been?  i went to go see those mufon members to find out about that woman, betsy hagopian. 
 i found out that she's dying along with a lot of other women who claim to be dying too. all of them who say that they have these implanted in them.it's the same thing i had removed from my own neck. am i? i don't know, mulder. they, they, they said that they know me, that they've seen me before. it was freaky. they know things about me, about my disappearance.  what is this?  i've seen this man before.  no, i... i've seen him before.  what are you doing with this?  yeah, but they were in full surgical dress, you couldn't tell one from the other.  murdered for what?  well, murdered by whom?  our government? for what possible reason?  mulder, that is still a fantasy.  believing's the easy part, mulder. i just need more than you, i need proof.  what am i looking at?  where did you get this?  do you know what it is?  so you're saying that this is manmade?  any way of finding out who manufactures it?  what are these chips used for?  how?  yeah. 
 scully. 
 where are you?  i thought you said that it was our government's railroad. 
 what do you mean?  mulder... 
 mulder... ...i was right about doctor ishimaru. he's not dead. in fact, he's on your videotape.
 no, that's not where i know him from at all. 
 what are you doing here?  no, why?  how do you know? 
 i don't know what you're talking about. 
 why should i trust you? you've lied to us before.  mulder, don't get on the train. 
 because they know where you are... ...and they know what you're doing.
 look, mulder, it's just too dangerous. 
 let it go. 
 mulder, don't get on the train. mulder. mulder!mul...[to be continued ...]separator mulder? answer me! 
 i want to know what's on that train.  our government is operating a secret railroad. they put something on that train in west virginia, something living.  what the japanese have to do with it. how a man named ishimaru is involved.  don't tell me you don't know, you smug son of a b... 
 i don't have time for your convenient ignorance.  you know them too?  the implant.  hey! stop!
 who are you? don't worry. i'm not going to hurt you. i'm an fbi agent. 
 what kind of facility?  hansen's dis... do you mean this is a leper colony?  l, look. i, i, i came here looking for a doctor shiro zama.  where did they go?  what death squads?  how many have been killed?  i don't understand how there could have been hundreds of people here when, when leprosy is supposed to be a treatable disease.  who were the others?  and they had hansen's disease?  oh, my god... oh...  wait! hey! 
 how did you know my name?  what are you talking about? (the elder faces him.) who are you? what is this place? (the elder slowly walks over to her, his footsteps echoing.) i've seen your methods of elimination. what happened to the man who was with me in the forest? what about the people who were in this room?  exposed to what?  you mean ishimaru. you hid him here after the war. he stayed here, and he continued his experiments.  what was he exposing these people to?  what kinds of things? (he looks away.)have i been exposed? who knows?  mulder, it's me. (cut to mulder.) i'm in west virginia.  mulder, we've gotten involved in something, but it's not at all what you think. (cut to mulder.) whatever is on that train is not alien. (cut to mulder, who motions for the red-haired man to move away from the door. mulder approaches it as he does.) mulder, ishimaru zama... (cut to scully.)he was experimenting on innocent human subjects.(cut back to mulder.)he'd been doing it for years. operating out of a leper colony.(mulder closes off the glass screen door.) the leper colony was just a front. the tests weren't just on lepers. they were on the homeless... (cut to scully.)on, on, on the insane, they were brought here and they were subjected...(cut back to mulder.)...to diseases and radiation tests.(mulder looks through the window at the person inside.) the man who handed me the phone.  because of what he's shown me. (cut to mulder, who looks back at the red-haired man.) mulder, i'm standing in a train car just like the one in your alien autopsy video... only i realize that i've been here before. (cut to mulder, who keeps his gun trained on the red-haired man, who is still on the other side of the glass.) this is where they brought me, mulder. this is where they put the implant in my neck, in one of these cars.  it all makes sense, mulder. ishimaru zama, he was using the secret railroad... (cut to mulder.)...to conduct his tests across the country. the women in allentown, they all remember these cars.(static builds on the phone scully talks illegibly, garbled under the static.) can you hear me?  what i am saying, mulder, is that there is no such thing as alien abduction. (cut to mulder, who listens in disbelief.)it is just a smoke screen, happily created by our government to cover-up the biggest lie of all. that wasn't a... (cut to scully.)...ufo, mulder. it was a piece of a russian nuclear sub that was raised. more lies.(cut back to mulder.) because i have what i told you i needed, mulder... proof. two weeks ago, the president made a public apology for secret radiation tests that had been conducted on innocent citizens up until 1974. (cut back to mulder.)only, guess what? mulder, listen to me. you have got to stay out of that train car. (cut to mulder.) because there is a bomb on board. (cut back to mulder.)mulder, if that bomb detonates, thousands of people are going to die of hemorragic fever. that's what the test subject inside has been exposed to. well, then we've got to get you out of there. 'cause that device is on a timer. (cut to mulder, who opens up the glass door.) there should be... (cut back to scully, who pulls apart some plastic curtains and looks up into a hole in the ceiling.)...a ventilation grid on the ceiling. it's hidden up inside.(cut to mulder, who looks up at the ceiling, then at the red-haired man.) did you find it, mulder?  how much time do you have?  look, mulder, you've got to get them to stop that train so we can get you off of it. (cut to mulder.)they want you to tell the engineer to stop at the next station. so we can get a bomb squad out there. (cut back to mulder.)and evacuate the train. did you hear that?  mulder?  mul... (mulder hangs up. cut to scully, who hangs up as well.) it's not on the map. (she hands him the phone and starts out. he follows. cut to mulder.) scully. 
 damn it, mulder, what happened? 
 yeah, i figured that, do you have any idea where you are? 
 mulder, if i'm right, they're not going to want to find you... but you don't think i'm right, do you? 
 we're not waiting for anything, mulder, we got to get you... ...out of there as fast as we can. yes, hello, my name is dana scully and i'm trying to reach senator matheson at home. i've already tried him at his office. please, this is an emergency, can you reach him? yes, i'm at, uh, 555-0199. thanks. this area code. 
 mulder? i think i've got something here.  i think i may have a code for you. i'm watching zama punch it into a keypad in one of the train cars. your alien autopsy video. 
 i've got six minutes left, is that what you have? 
 one. one, zero.
 yeah, yeah. one, zero, one. 
 and a three... then a three... 
 uh... i can't see the last number clearly. his hand gets in the way. 
 i know, i'm sorry, um... i think it's a one. 
 yeah, yeah, i'm pretty sure. 
 mulder? mulder?!
 are there any satellite photos you can get your hands on?  well, the administrator at the hospital where you were admitted said that someone had called and alerted them to your location. now, i went through the phone records myself, and the call was placed from a phone booth in blue earth, iowa.  yeah. i got it right here. 
 it's the one they gave me, the one they said you gave to the conductor. 
 mulder...  they've gotten away with it, mulder. the bodies at the leper colony have all been removed.  and i know what i saw at that research facility. it was barely recognizable as human. don't you see, mulder? you're doing their work for them. you're chasing aliens that aren't there, helping them to create a story to cover the shameful truth... and what they can't cover, they apologize for. apology has become policy.
separator these ligature marks on his neck are consistent with rope or fabric burns - strongly suggesting that he was strangled, but there seems to be an awful lot of blood loss here.  stigmata?  i don't see any wounds here on his hands or wrists or otherwise.  what are you doing?  others?  according to certain religious lore, at any given time there are twelve stigmatics in the world, representing the twelve apostles.  eleven? any clue as to the motivation?  well, that narrows down the field.  you said on the phone that there had been a previous incident.  was that the case?  how's he doing?  hi, kevin. my name is dana scully. can i talk to you a minute?  we don't know just yet. right now, we have to find out what happened. can you tell me how you got those cuts on your hands?  no, you can't tell me, or no, you don't know?  i don't want you to say anything that isn't true.  he feels a bit feverish. did you take his temperature?  you're a very brave boy, kevin. you have nothing to be afraid of. 
 i don't know.  the kid's hands were definitely cut, mulder.  have you determined how his hands were cut?  maybe we should talk to his father.  his father said that he needed to be protected. maybe he knows from whom. yes. how did you know that?  armageddon?  full circle to find the truth? i don't know what that means.  kevin was abducted from this room. several of the children witnessed it. we're getting a description of the man who took him.  did you get a composite?  this isn't the killer, mulder.  no, i mean it doesn't match the mo. none of the previous victims were ever abducted.  you know this man?  kevin? 
 if it's not you, then who is it?  mr. jarvis, my religious convictions are hardly the issue here.  don't! 
 you'll be ok. you'll be ok. (mulder finds jarvis dead on the floor upstairs. meanwhile, scully notices that there are blood stains on the bandages on the back side of kevin's hands.) owen lee jarvis, adult caucasion male. 42 years of age. cause of death is strangulation, consistent with previous victims, as suggested by burn marks around his neck. except ...  there appears to be some kind of a pattern just to the right of his windpipe, possibly a hand print. note to the lab to check further. it is now 14 hours after the time of death, but so far his body hasn't even begun to break down.  rigor mortis has yet to set in. his core body temperature remains at 98 degrees. his skin color, lividity is healthy.  there seems to be some ... 
  mulder, would you do me a favor? would you smell mr. jarvis? 
 you don't detect a faint floral odor? 
 mulder, this man's body is in no way decomposing normally. in catechism, we learned of instances like this - so-called "incorruptibles", whose bodies wouldn't decay and who emitted a smell of flowers.  st. cecilia, st. francis ...  i don't know.  well, what do you think this is?  well, isn't a saint or a holy person just another term for someone who's abnormal?  i ... believe in the idea that god's hand can be witnessed. i believe he can create miracles, yes.  maybe that's just what faith is.  got your message. what did you turn up?  what?  any evidence as to how the killer managed to do that?  a powerful and respected man.  israel?  yeah, it's when people who visit the holy land suffer religious delusions induced by the journey.  yeah, but it still doesn't explain how he was able to burn his fingerprints into owen jarvis' flesh. 
 it's kevin, isn't it?  it was an accident, kevin. your mother was only trying to protect you.  i don't know. but i won't let him hurt you. i promise.  how are you different, kevin?  kevin?  agent mulder and i are gonna take you back to the shelter. there'll be a doctor to take a look at you there.  no ... no, you don't. why don't you duck back inside.  i want to keep him with us, mulder, until gates is apprehended.  look, i know about getting personally involved and i'm not.  yes.  i'll wait right outside. 
 kevin has a cut under his ribs.  no, i ... i was with the paramedics when they were looking at him. it wasn't there.  no, mulder, i was paying close attention.  yesterday, i saw kevin's hands. they were bleeding from identical wounds on the top as on the bottom ... just like in the crucifixion.  there have been other signs. i haven't said anything until now, because i haven't been sure ... and i'm still not sure.  how kevin was able to be in two places at once ... just like st. ignatius was able to do in the bible.  how is it that you're able to go out on a limb whenever you see a light in the sky, but you're unwilling to accept the possibility of a miracle? even when it's right in front of you.  well, what about what i've seen? 
 kevin? you ok?   i didn't lock it. 
 i wasn't out of that room for more than two minutes, mulder. come on, there's someone i want to talk to again.  kevin's father.  he knew that kevin was in danger. he warned us about a powerful and respected man.  maybe he is.  well, it's not doing us a lot of good standing around here. you've never seen him before?  you really don't know?  haloperidol. it's a powerful anti-psychotic. they've increased his dosage. mr. kryder? you said something before about coming full circle to find the truth. what does it mean? full circle to find the truth?  mulder, look. arrows that form a circle. full circle to find the truth. gates' company owns a recycling plant near here. that's where he's taken kevin.  i don't think so, mulder.  i don't know. look, if i'm wrong, i'll meet you out at the airport. ok? stop! federal agent, i'm armed! let him go! let him go and we'll talk about it! 
 no! 
 kevin! hold on! hold on! 
 you all set?  maybe i'll see you again sometime.  yeah, i think so.  i'd appreciate it if you'd handle that alone, mulder. i have an errand i need to run.  i'll see you at the airport. bless me, father, for i have sinned. it has been six years since my last confession, and since then i've drifted away from the church. i'm not sure why exactly.  no, um, there's a man that i work with - a friend - and usually i'm able to discuss these things with him ... but not this. father, do you believe in miracles?  no, i'm talking about events that defy explanation. things that ... i believe helped me to save a young boy's life. but now i wonder if i saw them at all. if i didn't just imagine them.  because my partner didn't see them. he didn't ... he didn't believe them. and usually he ... he believes without question.  is that possible?  to find my way back?  mostly, it just makes me afraid.  afraid that god is speaking ... but that no one's listening.separator mulder, where have you been? i've been trying to reach you all day.  visiting your mother?  mulder, i think the only thing more fortuitous than the emergence of life on this planet is that, through purely random laws of biological evolution, an intelligence as complex as ours ever emanated from it. uh, the, the very idea......of intelligent alien life is not only......astronomically improbable but at it's most basic level, downright anti-darwinian. yeah, well, don't look too hard. you might not like what you find. 
 and look what happened. 
 wait... mulder, what's going on? mulder?
 hello? 
 what is it?  i'm not going to ask you if you just said what i think you just said because i know it's what you just said. 
 where are you again?  were there insect bites on the body? 
 'cause you know, mulder, millions of people are actually allergic to cockroaches. there have been reported cases of fatal reactions. it's called, uh, anaphylactic shock. 
 mm-hmm. many such reactions have occurred to entomologists or, uh, exterminators.  you still want me to come up? 
 stay. hello? another roach attack? 
 are there still insects in the body? 
 from the cockroaches?  well, was there any evidence of drug use at the crime scene? 
 you know, mulder, there's a psychotic disorder associated with some forms... ...of drug abuse where the abuser suffers from delusions that insects are infesting their epidermis.it's called ekbom's syndrome. the victim cuts himself in, in an attempt to extract the imaginary insect. still want me to come up? it's no bother. bye. hey!
 who died now? 
 a toilet? check his eyes. is one of them bloodshot with a dilated pupil? it's probably a brain aneurysm.  straining too forcefully is very common causation for bursting a brain aneurysm. 
 did you catch any?  i don't know what to tell you, mulder. i just hope you're not implying you've come across an infestation of killer cockroaches. 
 mulder? i've been doing some research. back in the mid-'80s, there was a cockroach species previously only found in asia. and since then, it's made an appearance in florida. they've now completely established themselves in this country.
 no, but they do exhibit behavior different than our domestic breeds. they, they fly for long distances and they're attracted to light.
 i'm suggesting that what's happening out there might be the introduction to this country of a new species of cockroach... one that is attracted to people. mulder, you're not thinking about trespassing onto government property again, are you? i know that you've done it in the past, but i don't think that this case warrants... well, what's going on? what do you see?  what does the place look like? 
 moving walls? 
 what?! 
 mulder, you've got to get out of there right now! 
 are you all right? what happened? 
 mulder, what's going on? 
 mulder! mulder! 
 mulder, are you okay?  what happened at the u.s.d.a. site?  did he give you any idea of how to catch them?  she? yeah, did you know that the ancient egyptians worshipped the scarab beetle and possibly erected the pyramids to honor them, which may be just giant symbolic dung heaps?
 did you know the inventor of the flush toilet was named thomas crapper? 
 who?  her name is bambi? 
 her name is bambi? 
 yeah, sure, okay. 
 you know, lots of people are afraid of insects, mulder. it's just a... it's a natural, instinctive. 
 a praying mantis? 
 mulder... are you sure it wasn't a girlie scream?what was that?
 mul... no... 
 what happened now? 
 mulder, i'm coming up there right now. 
 two cases of anaphylactic shock... ...in the same day in the same town is highly improbable.
 regardless, mulder, something strange is definitely going on up there. 
 i still haven't been able to explain the cockroaches at all the sites. 
 metal? what are you talking about? mulder? mulder, i'm coming up there.
 excuse me, do you sell road maps? could you tell me where they are?  what's going on here?  have you seen any of cockroaches yourself?  all right. all right, listen up!i'm agent dana scully from the federal bureau of investigation. i am assuring you that you are not in any danger. everything is going to be okay if you just calm down, and start acting rationally. now, where the hell are those road maps?  mulder, this town is insane. 
 i'm in a convenience store on the outskirts of, uh... civilization. look, i think i may have a lead. remember that doctor eckerle who was the alternative fuel researcher that witnessed the exterminator's death? well, the fuel that he's researching is methane gas... methane derived from manure.
 he has an import license... ...to bring in animal dung samples from outside the country. now, maybe you can confirm this with your doctor bambi......but i think that cockroaches are......dung-eaters, and if so, some of them may have been shipped accidentally in some of the samples. this fuel research facility could be ground zero for the infestation.
 mulder, i think you've been in this town too long. 
 let me guess... bambi.  no... this is no place for an entomologist. (she takes out her gun, loads the clip and walks towards the building. eckerle watches the cockroaches crawl over the dung heaps and chirp.) mulder? mulder! (scully sighs and pulls out her cellular phone. she starts dialing. mulder is still trying to calm eckerle down.) mulder!  there were others?  yeah, that would explain everything. (mulder looks at her and is about to say something when ivanov cuts him off.) smart is sexy. (mulder looks at her.)well, think of it this way, mulder. by the time there's another invasion of artificially-intelligent, dung-eating robotic probes from outer space, maybe their uber-children will have devised a way to save our planet.separator the map says to turn right at the intersection.  at the intersection?  this isnt a stoplight, its a stop sign.  a turn right. 
 yeah, could you tell me again exactly what happened the night of jay debooms death?  how did you know they were up to no good?  there have been incidents where the embalming fluid used to preserve the body have caused chemical reactions and produced heat and burning, i, i see nothing here that would suggest otherwise.  whats what?  a horned beast?  i think you guys are seeing something that isnt there.  no, i dont see the horns right there.   sure, fine.  whatever. what happened?  i see.  look, weve been working together for, what, two years now? we have different opinions, but i didnt expect you to ditch me.  fine, whatever.  this is called rumor panic. its when xxx that links up with a popular satanic cult myth and an increase of attention in a community. a villain or villains are singled out as the focus of the communitys confusion and angst about unexplained events, like the death of the high school boys. there have been at least twenty incidents since 1983 from upstate new york to reno, nevada and not one of them has turned up a single shred of evidence to support the wild allegations.  allright, everybody, stay back!  no, you go ahead.   r. w. g.  you can go now dr. godfrey, i dont think well be needing you any further. your story checked out.  the bones, turned out to be the skeletal remains not of an infant, but of a beloved, fourteen year old [lasa apso], formerly known as  mr. tippy. 
 can i have a word with you? 
 this has gone on far enough.  i am not going to be humiliated by you, in front of you, or by having to bring a teenage girl in, on her birthday of all days, to identify the bones of her dead dog, mr. tippy!  i see no reason to pursue this case any further and not only that, i find your conduct and comportment in this investigation not just alarming, but highly objectionable. what are you doing?!  if thats the reason were sticking around, thats your business.   detective white.  well, you two seem to have a certainsimpatico. im going back to washington in the morning. 
 a high school girl was impaled by flying glass from a bathroom mirror.   im driving.  i didnt see anything anyway.   im driv why do you always have to drive? because youre the guy? because youre the big macho-man? mulder: no. i was just never sure your little feet could reach the pedals.  will you go with her, please? thank you.  big macho-man i dunno what you think youre doing, but i suggest you put that gun down, sir, or im gonna have to arrest you.  you cant go walking down the middle of a street carrying a loaded weapon, it is against the law.  there are no satanists here.  why didnt you stop her terri, why didnt you tell anybody?   scully   where are you?  im way ahead of you, mulder. ive got a suspect i wanna bring in.  margi kleinjan.  thats right, her friend just gave us a statement.  who?  well, actually im way ahead of you, mulder, because im with terri right now.  ive got your suspect and youve got mine. why does that make sense to me at this point?    sure, fine, whatever. 
 you ready? separator he was arrested last week for the murders of at least seven men.  was there a signature or a defining mo?  both eyes punctured... signature gashes from the corners of the mouth to the ears. 
 the level of violence and overkill here would suggest the work of a very angry individual.  well, possession is a common claim by criminals who have dissociative disorders. it's how they... distance themselves from their actions.  a copy cat?  you have a nice soft bunk, sir. why aren't you using it?  or maybe it's just the name of your accomplice.  you killed all those young men yourself?  well, its fingerprints weren't on the murder weapon, yours were. and it won't be tried for seven murders under the death penalty.  is that was it did last night, john? snapped its fingers and let another young man die?  yes, i know. behavioral science... you wrote the book. it's a honor, sir.  no, not at all, sir.  you're not going to tell me when your love affair with patterson ended?  i thought you were considered his fair-haired boy when you joined the bureau.  why not?  you mean you couldn't worship him.  well, from what i hear, there are a lot of men who did. a lot of men joined the fbi because they wanted to be him. 
 by the looks of this, i'd say that served him pretty well.  i thought it was one of those pictures coming to life. 
 one of our guys must have locked it in here. 
 it's a door. 
 why don't you wait until we can get some more light in here?   see anything? 
  why would he keep them in a secret room? 
  mulder... 
  mulder, what is it? 
  what do you see? 
  mulder! can you tell me what's going on in there? we've turned the studio upside down and there doesn't seem to be any more bodies.  five. all of them dismembered, all of them young men whose faces were mutilated. just like the latest victim here. 
 what does patterson have to say?  well, i'd have to agree with that theory.  he thinks our finding mostow's secret gallery isn't going to do him any favors with patterson.  he requested him?  mulder's under the impression that patterson never thought too highly of hm.  stitches? what happened?  he was going to see what he could find out about these drawings of mostow's.  i think the same thing you are, sir. a second killer. 
 mulder? mulder, its me. 
 mulder? i was scared, mulder. i didn't know where you were. i kept trying your cell phone but you didn't answer.  you turned your phone off? why do you even bother carrying it?   thanks.  you still haven't told what you were doing in mostow's studio.  it? what are you talking about?  mostow killed those men, mulder, and out of some sick alliance some other person is continuing where he left off.  well, did you actually see it? mulder, maybe you're seeing what you want to see.  listen to yourself, mulder. listen to what you're saying. you're starting to sound like... 
 look, when i couldn't reach you, i went to your apartment. 
 i saw your new wallpaper. don't you realize what is happening here, mulder? he is testing you. he is the reason you were brought on this case in the first place.  he requested your involvement through skinner's office. i checked the 302 myself. 
  mulder... where are you going? 
 sir, can i have a minute?  in private? 
 maybe you can tell me... i'm curious about what you're doing concerning agent mulder.  i think you do, sir. i think you knew exactly how agent mulder would respond when you brought him on this case. you did request him, didn't you?  you know i already have.  i just want you to be honest with me about what you're trying to do. is this some kind of a payback for what happened eight years ago? because mulder quit the isu?  then why?  and you knew that he could help you solve it.  i'm sorry?  it looks like a partial index.  they're oriented how someone would have gripped the knife.  your message said that you identified them.  an fbi agent?  these are mulder's prints?  are you sure?  excuse me. 
 no, that's okay. you can just throw it on the floor. 
 you wanted to see me, sir?  yes, sir.  no, sir.  i'm not altogether certain.  yes, sir.  no, sir.  i know agent mulder is working very hard on this case at your request, sir.  no... sir.   mulder?  where are you?  are you with nemhauser?  well, that's who i was calling. he left this number on my answering machine. he said he had to talk to me. 
 mulder? do you know where he is?  mulder, that knife that we recovered at the crime scene, i think it's the same one that mostow used.  because mostow's was stolen from evidence.  i was hoping you could tell me. your prints were all over it.  why? 
 yeah, but why?  okay, mulder. listen to me carefully. i want you to stay exactly where you are. i'm going to be there in a few minutes and we're going to work this thing out together. okay? mulder?  mulder! what the hell are you doing? 
 first, put the gun down.  help me understand why you have a gun on agent patterson! 
 mulder! 
 you okay, mulder? 
 we should call an ambulance. his pulse is still strong. 
separator and it concerns me?  i see.  you know, it's strange. men can blow up buildings, and they can be nowhere near the crime scene but we can piece together the evidence and convict them beyond a doubt. our labs here can recreate out of the most microscopic detail the motivation and circumstance to almost any murder, right down to a killer's attitude towards his mother and that he was a bed wetter. but in a case of a woman, my sister, who was gunned down in cold blood in a well-lit apartment building by a shooter who left the weapon at the crime scene, we can't even put together enough to keep anybody interested.  if i may say so sir, it has everything to do with interest. just not yours, and not mine. 
 sorry i'm late.  no. it's nothing. what did you want to talk to me about?  why is that of interest?  longitude uh.. 171 east, latitude 42 north.  mulder...  so what?  why don't you just ask them?  from exposure to what?  could it have anything to do with their resumption in nuclear tests?  i'm just constantly amazed by you.. you're working down here in the basement, sifting through files and transmissions that any other agent would just throw away in the garbage.  you're in the basement because they're afraid of you, of your relentlessness and because they know that they could drop you in the middle of the desert, and tell you the truth is out there, and you would ask them for a shovel!  well, maybe not a shovel. maybe a backhoe.  these symptoms, would you characterize then as acute or somatic?  i'm a medical doctor.  what kind of exposure are we talking about here?  that's verging on the levels of victims of hiroshima suffered.  did you get the chance to talk to any of them?  nothing?  yeah, thanks. is this the way you found this room?  it feels like somebody was looking for something, any idea what?  what for?  it's a north american p-51 mustang.  it's the shape of the canopy. i used to watch my father and brothers put together world war ii model planes as a kid. 
 no it was just a fighter.  i don't know, but i might know somebody i can ask. hi, i'm here to see commander johansen.  special agent dana scully, fbi.   no, uh.. he used to be a friend of my father's. i'm out here from washington and i wanted to surprise him.  i know my way, thanks. 
 commander johansen?  i'm dana scully, i used to live 3 doors down. my father was captain william scully. i went to school with your son..  actually sir, i came to see you. i work for the fbi now and there's a question i'm hoping you can answer.  thank you.  no thank you. i know that you were an officer in the pacific during world war ii. i wanted to ask you about a plane that's been discovered.  yes, a p-51 mustang at the bottom of the pacific ocean  with the uh..call numbers jtt0 111470.  there was an illustration on the fuselage with the words "drop dead red".  would the words zeus faber mean anything to you?  well would you know anybody i might be able to talk to? somebody who might be able to give me that information?  i wish you could too. there's a number of french sailors who may die from radiation exposure. if we knew more about the plane, we might be able to understand why. anyway.. it was very good to see you again sir. 
 i wish i could, he's passed away.  i have to say this place brings back memories for me. i remember all the kids used to play a game called beckons wanted, right out there. well.. if you talk to your son, will you tell him i stopped by?  thank you. 
 why?  what's this about?  what's going on?  i'm sorry...there's something else, isn't there?  i don't know if i understand.  you know something about that plane don't you?  mulder, it's me, where are you?  miramar airbase. i think i've just found out what those men were exposed to, what the piper maru was out there looking for.  that p-51 mustang was part of an escort for a b-20 carrying an atomic bomb, just like the one we dropped on hiroshima. only this one never reached its target.  says one of the men originally sent to find it, on a submarine called the zeus faber.  it all makes sense mulder, why would they build a nuclear weapon when they can salvage one?  i don't know.  what about you?  hong kong?  radiation killed all those men?  what happened to sanford and the sick crew men?  scully.  yes.  when?  i'm on my way.separator excuse me, where can i find walter skinner? he was brought in with a gunshot wound.   agent fuller.   how bad is he?  what happened?  what do we have on the shooter?  hair and fiber?  this is the assistant director who's been shot. we have to make all resources available. 
 excuse me.   how is he?   he's on steady demerol, he's in and out. i thought i asked for guards to be posted outside.  this wasn't a random shooting. i want guards posted here and i want them here now!  i've heard the excuses. i don't care if you and agent caleca have to stand in the hallway yourself. this man has to be protected. okay? 
 i got a message you called.  it's on the shooter?  which tells us we're looking for a male, probably in his 40s with blood type b positive, but we already know all that from the waitress' description.  we still gotta find the guy before we can get a match.  this takes too much time. you know what, run them anyway. can i borrow you this for a little while?  thanks. what happened?   the state police found you unconscious. you were strapped in the passenger's seat of a rental car that had been driven into a ditch.  who's "we"?  krycek?  is that what the men wanted?  well it may not be the best time to tell you but, you're not the only one in the hospital. skinner's been shot.  a bullet perforated his small intestine. the doctor seems to think he'll be fine.  i'm not sure. but i have an idea.   pcr results  this one belongs to the man who shot skinner.   the man who shot melissa. 
 hi, how are you feeling?  we've determined that the man who shot you was the same man who shot my sister.  yes i did, you don't seem surprised.  do you realize what you're saying sir?  you're saying, that they closed down my sister's case not because of lack of evidence but because they didn't want us to catch the killer.  the man who shot you.. you said that you've seen him before.  he was working with krycek?  damn it! krycek, mulder had him.  i'll be ok   it's exactly what they want 
 what's this doing here?  evidence of what?  what kind of oil?  i don't understand.  i still don't understand how did this get onto the diver and then onto the diver's wife.  so you're saying that this stuff has intelligence.  waiting to jump into the diver and then into the diver's wife.  krycek?  is anybody not looking for krycek?  beautiful.  i'll bet.  what do you mean?  does he have an alias?  damn it, they think they can just get away with it.  keep looking for him.  what's it gonna take?  i've seen stranger things, believe me.  scully.  they should be why?  i got it covered mulder.  nurse, what happened to the guards who were outside this room?  where did they go? and what happened to the man who was in this room?  where is he?  where did they take him?  thank you. 
 no everything is fine, i'm just gonna ride with you the rest of the way, ok?   i just wanted to make sure you got where you were going safely.   
 you just lie still    
 federal agent stop right there!  are you luis cardinal?! are you luis cardinal?!  you shot my sister!  tell me!  tell me!  mulder it's me, where are you?  what are you doing?  what are you doing in new york?  mulder, your instincts were right about skinner. we've just arrested a man for what looks like attempted murder.  it's him mulder, the man who shot my sister.  mulder listen to me, he said he knows where krycek is. i don't know if this makes any sense to you, he says he's headed towards an abandoned missile site somewhere in north dakota.  what's in north dakota?  there must be 200 silos out here. if i'm correct they were all filled with concrete in accord with the disarmament treaty when the base was decommissioned.  my ears are still popping.  where's the concrete?  1 down, 199 silos to go. 
 we saw bodies in there.  men with radiation burns! separator sorry. what time is it? no luck, i take it?  okay on the trace.  okay. not a complete trace. they think he was using a digital scrambler.
 phone book. 
 hang on a second. 
 yeah, it's me again. we want the last number dialed out from this location. just ring it on through. okay. 
 so he's a killer and a golfer.  mulder. 
 right, thank you.  the outpatient office says modell is scheduled for a two-thirty m.r.i. that's right now.  why?  you. 
 take it.  i'm with you, mulder. 
 mulder. 
 we're losing you! 
 mulder, what happened? 
 mulder, wait, wait. get close to the computer monitor. 
 yeah, yeah, yeah, right there. there. that light mass in his temporal lobe.
 you were right, mulder. now check around you. modell's chart should be somewhere around there.
 mulder, just get out of there. go.mulder?mulder!god!
 just wait for a signal from me. 
 mulder. 
 we've got a dozen law enforcement officers outside in the hall... another thirty in the parking lot.  so whatever you've got planned, it's not going to work out the way you it want to. 
 wait. mulder, look... there's pure oxygen in this room. there's no telling what could happen if you pull that trigger...
 mulder, no.  mulder, listen to me. give me the gun. we can stop this thing right now. you and i can walk outside of this room... no! damn you! you bastard! mulder, hand me the g...mulder, you don't have to do this. you're stronger than this. mulder, fight him. you can fight this.  there's no telling how long he'll hang on, but he'll never regain consciousness. 
 what do you mean?  why?  i say we don't let him take up another minute of our time. 
separator how did you learn about what happened here last night?  according to the police, you felt this murder may have been an act of political terrorism.  is that the survey and excavation of the uh  "highland burial grounds of the secona indians?"  this is from a letter that was sent to the state department on behalf of the secona demanding the return of a certain artifact.  rescued?  as i understand it, roosevelt disappeared under circumstances not dissimilar to the ones here.  but thats not what you believe.  have there ever been any death threats?  did you know craig horning?  did he have any warning that this could happen?  are you aware that a letter of protest was sent to the state department concerning this urn?  this one was written by a man named alonzo bilac.  is he still with the project?  why is that?  dr. bilac?   were with the fbi. were investigating the disappearance of an associate of yours --- craig horning.  may we ask you some questions?  dr. bilac, you were part of the expedition that brought back the amaru urn.  mona wustner.  but you were dr. roosevelt's liaison in ecuador. at what point did you part company with him on the taking of artifacts?  did you express that to him?  were you speaking for yourself or for the indians?  well, apparently, theyve learned something from you too.  dr. lewton believes that the protest over the amaru urn has something to do with craig horning's disappearance.  what do you think happened to him?  let me ask you, dr. bilac. how far would you go to defend the rights of the seconas? farther than writing a letter to the state department?  can you account for your whereabouts last night?  you mean the kind who would kill for their cause?  no. i think he's *the* suspect.  based on the arrogance of his politics, on his rift with dr. lewton, on his sympathies towards the indians. and the lack of any other suspect.  maybe because he was up late murdering craig horning.  craig horning's blood. what do you think he did with him?  you think bilac's innocent? that the victim wasn't even murdered at all? that he was devoured by a mythological jaguar spirit?  label that.   partial rat body part. 
 excuse me can i have a word with you? you were working here last night when dr. lewton was killed.  did you notice anything out of the ordinary? was he behaving strange or did he seem nervous about anything?  did he say anything to you about dr. bilac?  do you have any idea when the two of them last spoke to each other?   i'm going to give you my card. call me if anything comes to mind. 
 mulder  no. they've been over the entire museum grounds. have you found anything at all out here?  well, they determined that the hood release had been pulled. they found a small flashlight near the car. looks to me like he was checking the engine when attacked.  i dont think so, mulder.  we found evidence of at least two mutilated rat bodies down in the engine compartment.  apparently, the museum has always had a rat problem. they must have crawled into the engine to keep warm. 
 you know, mulder, there's hardly a thing about these deaths that adds up.  whats the connection?  i think mona wustner might know something.  well, she seemed to get nervous when i asked her about bilac. maybe shes trying to protect him. 
 i dont think so, mulder. 
 well, it's human. small intestine. there's about four feet of jejunum and another foot of ileum.  yeah, by what he had for lunch. corn chowder. it looks like he'd been snacking on sunflower seeds all afternoon.  what i can't determine how the body was eviscerated. there are no knife marks on the epithelium. i imagine they could have been torn or pulled from the body cavity.  but i can't determine that, either, because there was considerable postmortem predation.  well, by the size of the bite marks, a small animal, most probably a rat.  yep. 
  scully? . slow down, mona.   what happened, mona?   where is he now?   i want you to stay exactly where you are. im going to send agent mulder over to get you, right away, okay? hes on his way.  dr. bilac? 
  mulder, its me. did you find mona?   no. hes not here either. but i found his journals. "i've seen the amaru coming out of the jungle with the eyes of a scorpion, the claws of a jaguar. she leaps down from the trees. she tears at my flesh, then holds my head in her hands, and eats out my eyes."   these are all recent.   why?   mulder, i think bilacs been tripping. i found something strange in a ceremonial bowl and - and from his writings it says that its .. its a hallucinogen called "yaje." "the vine of the soul."   i think he's been praying to the amaru through some kind of a ceremony.   it looks like he's invoking the curse, mulder. 
  did you find mona?  where is she?  you told agent mulder that she was dead. you must know where she is.  then why do you have blood on your clothes?  she said she was scared. she said that you became violent.  maybe you were too high to know the difference. there is no curse, is there, dr. bilac? you are the curse.  im going to ask you one more time, dr, bilac, where is monas body?   that man stays in that room until there's a full search of the museum, okay?  i just assumed that one of the toilets had overflowed.  there's only one way to find out.  how did they get in there.  mona wustner?  what did you find?  warfarin?  the dog ate a cat.  the cat ate a rat.  yeah. 
 significant of what?  its an old building, mulder. they have a rat problem. a lot of old buildings have rats.  yaje.  so, what are we talking here, mulder, a possessed rat? the return of ben?  from something that sent them diving into the toilet.  have *you* been drinking yaje, mulder?  what? hows that possible?  did you step away from this door at any time?  and no one entered this room?  are there any other doors or windows in this room?  you didnt hear anything?  i want you to search the entire building beginning with every room on this floor.  where does it lead to?  you think bilac crawled down there?  (looking at blueprints) the system looks like it branches off into three directions. there must be miles of tunneling down there.  and one way out.  (looking at blueprints) to the left, it looks like. (they walk further. shot of blurred yellow perspective of mulder and scully, then shot of cat eye watching them. there is a clanking sound, then they see a rat run across the tunnel.) we should be directly under the museum here. (mulder shines light on a door. he goes one direction. scully looks in a little room. mulder finds the rat which has stopped. he shines his light up near the ceiling.) (in another tunnel) what is it? (scully joins mulder and looks at the body he has found, now on the floor.) oh, my god. its dr. lewton. it looks like his eyes were eaten right out of his sockets.  what is it?  you think that cat killed those people? (they walk over a large grate under which swarm a group of cats meowing. anyone who has opened a can of catfood for more than 3 cats knows the swirling furry image presented here.) no, mulder, this way. theres a room here with a vent. up there. (mulder closes the door and watches the meowing army out in the tunnel. scully opens the vent and gasps as she sees a body in the vent.) its bilac. (they turn to see the cats scratching through the door.) yeah.  well, the search team's on their way back up. they've recovered all the bodies including mona's and bilac's.  animal control is still looking. so far, they haven't found any sign of them.  no ones denying that, mulder, its just that there are miles of tunnels down there. and theyre saying its gonna take weeks to search them all.  what are you talking about?  what for?  the curse?  are they going to send back the bones? separator what a way to go. have you seen this mo before, detective? men cremated alive?  his name was johnny lo. he moved here about six months ago from canton. still in the ins application process. he was a dishwasher in chinatown.  (short laugh at mulders joke) i think it's pretty clear this is some kind of a horrific cult or gang retribution killing.  i dont know.  so now were chasing ghosts?  so you're saying that the ancestral spirits pushed johnny lo into the oven and turned on the gas?  (touching it) it's still tacky.  someone's been here. this place has been cleaned out. look at this. (she points to where dust patterns show that things have been removed from a table. mulder and scully walk into the other room.) maybe it's this new carpet. (a new cream colored carpet covers the floor.) what slumlord would spring for a new carpet in a dump like this?  what's this?  and what about this?  i couldn't tell you what any one of these things are.  does she remember johnny lo or remember selling it to him?  what was that about?  what about you, detective? do you believe in yu lan hui?  what were they doing here?  i still don't understand what anybody would want with an empty grave. 
 a lot. and i haven't even finished my preliminary visual exam.  look at this. this guy's like a jigsaw puzzle. these are all surgical incisions and judging by the color of the scars id say they were all made within the last year.  if you ask me, nothing.  do you know how much the human body is worth, mulder?   it's worth a fortune.  a kidney, a portion of the liver, a cornea bone marrow... a person can lose these things and live to cash his social security checks.  no, but if im right this is one man who left his heart in san francisco. 
 i only saw one body, but the only thing that wasn't burned to a delicate crisp on johnny lo was his glass eye. 
 oh, god. 
 maybe you can tell us. it was found in the body cavity of the man who was dumped in the grave.  you said the frog was a symbol of luck and prosperity. unless this is somebodys sick joke id say it must have another meaning.  this man with the frog in his chest was missing a cornea and a kidney. they were taken prior to the time of death before the final removal of his heart.  and i found what is known as "sterile ice" on the skin in and around the incision on his chest. it is a substance that is used to preserve human organs for transplant.  either you resent us being here or you feel some kind of protectiveness towards the chinese community.  mr. hsin, can i ask what happened to your eye?  mr. hsin, you laid a carpet in an apartment that was occupied by a man named johnny lo.  we contacted the man that you work for. he said it must have been a job you took on the side. he has no record of a work order. (on a table near the window, mulder finds the red bordered tile that hsin drew the night before. he picks it up and looks at it carefully.) his name was johnny lo. he's dead now-- murdered-- and we think that the carpet was laid in an attempt to cover up evidence. now your employer says . (scully continues the interview as chao opens bedroom door and sees kim in bed. they speak quietly.) do you remember who called you about the job?  whats up?  that this guy didnt have an accident at work.  i say we monitor hsins every movements.  look like you just saw a ghost.  he hasnt left his apartment, has he?   well, you can use the one down at st. francis hospital.  detective chao was attacked in his town house tonight. i just talked to lieutenant neary. he says hes cut up pretty bad.  i dont know, but i think we should go check it out. 

 how is he?  why would he just take off?  you want to see what his injuries were?  his blood type?  you think chaos involved?   uh, o-negative.  that the blood that we found on the carpet padding in the victim's apartment was detective chaos.  mr. hsin.  we're looking for mr. hsin. is he home?  are you his daughter?  may we talk to you? 
 you're sick, aren't you?  but that's a treatable form of cancer.   this is a human leukocyte work-up. was your father rejected as a bone marrow donor?  this is from the organ procurement organization. its dated only a month ago. your father had an hla but he also had his kidneys measured, his liver.  or sterile ice. (mulder opens the commercial refrigerator. there are lots of objects packed in ice.) what is that?  hes still alive. (mulder begins cuffing chao.) no ghosts called to those men. you did, by preying on their hopelessness and their desperation.  you cheated them out of life by promising them prosperity when the only possible reward was death.  i understand this. you are going to prison for a very long time. 
 what about his daughter?  that's great.  what's wrong?  and?  what about chao? his testimony would be enough. separator well, i'd never actually much considered it myself before i started this job.  yes, and i feel that i must apologize for his refusal to speak with you, mister chung, but, uh, i must admit, i probably wouldn't have myself if i wasn't such an admirer of your work.  "the lonely buddha" is one of my favorite novels. 
 what made you decide to write a book about an alien abduction if you're not that interested in the subject yourself? 
 well... just as long as you're attempting to record the truth.  what do you mean?  so you're here to get my version of the truth? 
 well... not right away, of course. um... not enough time had elapsed for it to be considered a missing person's case before the girl was found the following morning. she was suffering from what my partner calls "missing time." she recalled nothing of the previous night, nor how she had arrived at her present whereabouts. her body exhibited signs of physical abuse, and all of her clothes were on backwards or inside-out. 
 actually, i prefer neither, but my partner uses "abductee."  well, regardless, the girl was considered neither at the time. she appeared more to be the victim of date rape than anything else. she was given a physical exam and her statement was taken. later that night, she received her... visitation.
 the father informed the police, who apprehended the boy back at his own home. 
 and he stuck to his story... until we got there. 
 that should have ended our investigation, but mulder brought the girl in for questioning. 
 so, my partner became convinced that she was suffering from what he calls "post-abduction syndrome."  well, i think that stress of any kind can cause all of those physical ailments. in any case, mulder convinced the girl and her parents to let her be hypnotized. 
 i know that it has its therapeutic value, but it has never been proven to enhance memory. in fact, it actually worsens it since, since, since people in that state or prone to confabulation.  one of the greatest thrillers ever written.  hmm.  no one still knows.  that's my problem with it, mulder. it's all a little too typical. abduction lore has become so prevalent in our society that you can ask someone to imagine what it would be like to be abducted and they'd concoct an identical scenario.  well, of course, he didn't actually say "bleeped." he said...  harold... did you and chrissy engage in consensual sexual intercourse that night? 
 so we know that it wasn't an alien who probed her. mulder, you've got two kids having sex before they're mature enough to know how to handle it.  it's a lot more plausible than an alien abduction, especially in light of their contradictory stories. 
 why did you wait till now to tell us this information? two kids' lives may be affected by it.  at which point?  unfortunately, i'm not sure that modern reconstruction of ancient fairy tales lends any more credence to roky's testimony. (cut back to the garage. the man in black steps out of the car and walks slowly towards roky.) in short, roky showed signs of being what is known as a fantasy-prone personality.  how did you get a copy? 
 it definitely was peculiar.  wh, wh, well, mulder's had his share of peculiar notions. he's not inclined to dismiss anything outright. mulder, you're nuts! who are you calling?  re-hypnotized? what for?  so the girl was put under again to see if she could confirm any of the boy's story. and as i suspected she might under such conditions, she did. 
 mulder, i think you and the hypnotherapist were leading her and i think there was more confabulation in the second version than in the first.  after not recovering the tape, mulder was heading back to the motel and that's when his account of things gets a little... odd. 
 well, not after what happened when mulder left the diner and got back to the motel. mulder, these gentlemen have something very important to tell you. 
 mulder didn't say that it was alex trebek. it was just someone that looked incredibly like him.  well, not exactly, i'm... i don't have any recollection of this. i... was surprised to wake up the next morning with mulder asleep in my room. but, mulder... i, i don't even remember letting you in. scully. we'll be right there. that was detective manners. he said they just found your bleeping ufo. i know it probably doesn't have the sense of closure that you want... but it has more than some of our other cases. 
separator  mulder, it's me. i just got your message. you said skinner called in a homicide?  i don't understand.  most of it. mulder, i'm on my way.   the conspicuous absence of any contusions or lacerations would strongly suggest that the victim's injuries were sustained without a struggle. from my observations, i would have to concur with the county coroner's report that her murder was most probably a sudden and violent act  in a vulnerable moment. beyond this, i found nothing in my post-mortem examination to recommend further investigation.  her spinal cord was crushed, mulder. the cervical vertebrae was fractured in what appears to be manual trauma.  so far. they found no semen samples. there was some irritation, probably an allergic reaction to latex.  have they learned anything more?  have you talked to anybody she worked with?  an indiscretion?  what kind of work?  give me five minutes here.  business must be booming.  we'd like to ask you some questions about an employee of yours - carina sayles. she does work for you, doesn't she?  well, you can start by telling us if she was working last night, and if she was, who paid for her company.  i also doubt that they'd want to get entangled in a homicide investigation.  it just doesn't seem like him.  well, i think the lack of discretion is the least of his sins.  no, but that doesn't mean that we can discount the evidence.  look, mulder, i feel the same way about skinner as you do, but we were just shown a dated record with skinner's credit card number on it.  skinner was in bed with a prostitute at the time of her death, and he's offered us no explanation or alibi.  truth is, we don't know very much about him. we don't know what he does off duty, who he really is.  even if it means proving his guilt? 
 who was that?  why won't you tell us what happened last night, sir?  do you know him?  we were just a little caught off guard. neither of us even knew that he was married. i mean, he never told us.  has he always been such a private person?  including you?  is that why you were separated?  excuse me. 
  scully.  yes.  where?  ok.  sorry. mulder, we've gotta go.  you have our numbers if you need to reach us.  what's going on here?  that's right.  available for what?  he's doing everything he shouldn't be doing.  he's behaving like a guilty man, mulder.  it's his irrational behavior that concerns me. it speaks to a state of mind. if, if a, if an otherwise stable man is compelled to go out and hire a prostitute, what else is he capable of?  i *am*, mulder, believe me.  i'm not trying to convince myself.  well, maybe he doesn't remember.  not necessarily. 
 this man is running away from a train. he sees it coming straight at him. he hears its whistle. several times a month, he ran away from that train. until one night, he broke his wife's arm when he threw her to the floor.  no, night terrors and sleep walking occur doing slow-wave non-dream sleep. the clinical term for this is rem sleep behavior disorder. although rare, dozens of cases of sleep-related violence have been attributed to it.  this video tape came from the bethesda sleep disorder center, where skinner has been receiving treatment for the past three months.  the same disorder, different dreams.  according to skinner's psychiatrist, he's been experiencing a recurring dream in which he's confronted by an old woman. she speaks to him but he doesn't understand the words. sometimes, she, she straddles his chest, suffocating him.  defending himself against this imaginary old woman. a lot of these patients have no recollection of their nocturnal activities, which might explain skinner's amnesia.  it isn't? 
 visits them for sex?   what's that?  i feel kinda strange saying this, but i found something during my post-mortem exam that i think you should see. 
 it's a circular patch around the victim's mouth and nose, approximately 11 centimeters in diameter. it retained light energy. it glowed in the dark. 
 i know what i saw, mulder. it was here.  no. it was definitely visible to the naked eye.  yeah. i sent on over to chem-tox.  well, my first hunch was that it was some kind of a fungal growth, but the only substance that they detected was amylase, which is found in saliva. so i had them send a sample to the elemental analysis unit. the results should be back.  yes, this is agent dana scully. i'm calling to find out the lab results on a tissue sample that i sent in earlier this morning. thank you.   that there was no analyzable substance in the sample container.  mulder, i'm afraid this isn't exactly something that i'd make up.  that he did it?  number 5.  according to woltos' report, the hood was still warm when they got to skinner's apartment, even with the rain. look at the left front panel. the matched the paint in the dent to sharon skinner's car. 
 the only prints they found on the steering wheel were skinner's.  sure. why? 
 i don't know what you're expecting to find, mulder, but uh, skinner's hearing is in half an hour.  what are you doing? 
 yes, sir.  no, sir. none of the physical evidence we recovered directly connects the assistant director to her death.  i took a sample of an extraneous substance that turned out to be unidentifiable.  a naturally occurring enzyme around her mouth and nose.  no.  sir, i feel reluctant to say or to speak for agent mulder.  agent mulder had a theory that the substance could have come from a visitation.  no. i'm sorry, i don't.  whatever extreme cases i have encountered i have always viewed through the lens of science. i believe that is why i was assigned to the x-files and to agent mulder.  excuse me, sir, i don't understand the question.  no, sir. not at all.  i believe the assistant director has protected us out of a respect for the work.  no. that is not true.  sir, if i may ...  i'm not finished.   mulder? 
 you missed it. not that anything you said would have made a difference.  out of a job.  he would have had a better chance against a firing squad.  how'd you know?  but why?  what am i looking at? 
 i don't understand. why would they orchestrate such an elaborate scheme just to set him up? why not just kill him?  who is this guy? 
 so how are we supposed to find him?  so he must have hired the prostitute. mulder, look. 
 judy, we need you to identify somebody. 
 and lorraine. he's cleaning house.  agent mulder's right. i'll stay with you if you want, until we take him into custody.   did you get him? 
 he should have been here fifteen minutes ago.   nothing.   maybe it's the rain.  mulder, hang on a second.  judy?  mulder, get up here right now.  judy? 
 i'm sorry. i called but you didn't answer. 
 what's the matter? 
 uhhh ... 


 mmm-hmmm ... 
 sir?  this is our report. you'll see, though, that several questions remain unanswered.  we ran his face and fingerprints through every available database. there's still no matches. and we're doing a dental record search, but that'll probably be a dead end, too. and regarding the other man ... the telephone number that we had for him has been disconnected, and there's no record of an account. separator nature's calling. i think we should pull over soon.  you wake me up on a saturday morning, tell me to be ready in five minutes, my mother is out of town, all of the dog sitters are booked, and you know how i feel about kennels. so unless you want to lose your security deposit on the car, i suggest you pull over.  i know i'm lost as to why you're so interested in this missing persons case.  it's not jurisdiction that i'm questioning, mulder.  so you think that there's a serial killer at large?   what are you leaving out?  most missing persons cases are not that uncommon, mulder. why this one warrants us flying halfway across the country and driving for two hours is a total mystery. . oh, tell me you're not serious? 
 according to the sheriff's report, you were the last person to see dr bailey alive.  i understand you argued over an endangered species petition.  you sound bitter, dr farraday.  well, aside from having a motive, you don't seem too upset by any of this.  mulder? this is sheriff lance heads.   queequeg.  we'd need irrefutable proof.  mulder, a creature as large as the one you're looking for would have left considerably deeper impressions.  queeqeg! queequeg come back here! queequeg! mulder? sherrif, come take a look at this.  there's your lake monster mulder.  it's all a hoax?  well, it's hard to tell without an autopsy, but it looks like propellor damage from a motor boat.  mulder, look at it out there. it's like rush hour.  for all we know, he stepped in something and bled into those funny shoes of his. he's probably so embarrased right now, he doesn't want to show his face.  regardless of what i believe, there's no hard evidence to what you believe.  he's right, mulder. those two sets of remains we found so far are inconclusive. we really need to find this body.  are you okay, sheriff?  i agree with you, i just wish that he gave us something more.  yeah, it could be a lot of things, mulder. fifteen years of fruitless hinting and the only thing the guy comes up with is a blurry picture of the monster's tooth?  mulder, they're just a bunch of poorly composed tory shots.  a tooth? i'm taking queequeg for a walk.  i'm fine.  goodnight, mulder.   come on, queequeg. queequeg, we're not going to go into the woods. come on, do your business. i thought you had to go. queequeg! what is it? queequeg! where are you going?  queequeg! come back here! queequeg! queequeg? queequeg! quee... 
 mulder...  could you repeat the last part again? i kind of faded out.  after you said i'm sorry?   it's too bad we're not out here fishing.   you really expect to find this thing, don't you mulder?  i'll take that as a yes.  you know, on the old mariner's maps, the cartographers would designate uncharted territories by writing 'here be monsters'.  what was that?   what is that? what is that, mulder?  it looks like it's coming straight at us.   mayday! mayday! can anybody hear me? this is the patricia rae. ca78327. mayday! mayday! 
 there goes our five hundred dollar deposit.  swim?  in which direction?   living in the city you forget a lot of things. you know what i was just thinking about, being mugged or hit by a car, it's not until you get back to nature that you realize that everything is out to get you. so my father always told me to respect nature, because it has no respect for you.   so what if it was. mulder, what are we doing here?  what are you hoping to accomplish?  what for?  is that really the reason why? you know when you showed me those pictures the photographer took, you want to know what i really saw in them?  no, you. that man is your future. listening only to himself, hoping to catch a glimpse of the truth, for who knows what reason.  well, as dumb as it sounds, at least it's a legitimate reason.  mulder, sometimes i just can't figure them out.  well as much as the very idea is abhorrent to me, i suppose under certain conditions a living entity is practically conditioned to perform whatever extreme measures are necessary to ensure its survival. i suppose i'm no different.  well, actually i have, thanks for...  poor queequeg.  it was the name of the harpoonist in moby dick. my father used to read to me from moby dick when i was a little girl, i called him ahab and he called me starbuck. so i named my dog queequeg. it's funny, i just realized something.  no, how much you're like ahab. you're so consumed by your personal vengeance against life, whether it be its inherent cruelties or mysteries, everything takes on a warped significance to fit your megalomaniacal cosmology.  it's the truth or a white whale. what difference does it make? i mean, both obsessions are impossible to capture, and trying to do so will only leave you dead along with everyone else you bring with you. you know mulder, you are ahab.  and that's not flippant?  what was that?   dr farraday?  no, no. we had a little trouble with our boat.  it was my fault. we would have been out here all night if you hadn't answered our distress call.  walking by?  what exactly is it that you're doing out here dr farraday? it's well after midnight.  this is striker's cove?  a human?  well captain, what now?  sheriff, agent mulder and i would appreciate it if you could spare two or three of your men to assist us here.  what was that? i think you nipped an artery. we've got to get him to a hospital, he's losing blood. give me your belt.  mulder, help is coming. mulder!  he'll be fine. how are you?  well, you slued the big white whale, ahab.  how can you be disappointed? that alligator would have gone through half the local population if you hadn't killed it.  well, there's still hope. that's why these missing stories have endured. people want to believe. 
separator sorry, i would've gotten here sooner but the beltway was a parking lot. what's going on?  what do you mean?  does he have a history of mental illness?  so, what's the x-file?  and police found no other motive for either of these attacks?  hi.  you're the physician in charge?  has he been sedated?  you said you got this case last night, where did it come from?  who? this outside source, mulder, what's his interest in this case? what does he want us to uncover? and you're not suspicious that we're being used?  how'd you get in here?  mulder. look at this, there must be hundreds of videos here.
 all i see are recordings of cable news shows. they're all dated and in chronological order. you know, that's what patnik was watching at the hospital when he went all wiggy. what if there's some connection? you're the one who's interested. 
 i'm going to show you something. these tapes are dated april nineteenth, april twenty-first and april twenty-third. each corresponds to a night that patnik committed a murder. among other things, a one-hour special report on the atrocities in bosnia, a report that prominently features lladoslav miriskovic.  and my guess is that once i review the tapes for the night that patnik killed his wife, that i'll find that report there as well.  well, recent studies have linked violence on television to violent behavior.  but they believe that the causal connections are there, mulder.  all i'm saying is that i think it's clear that, that the programs that patnik watched somehow triggered his violent behavior.  the doctor suggested amphetamine abuse. maybe that coupled with, with the disturbing images he was watching, pushed him over the edge.  okay, then how do you explain it?  where are you going?  no, i'm going to... watch the rest of these tapes. just out of curiosity.  yeah.  yeah, i'll be right there. 
 the car's been moved. did you take it out last night? 
 nothing. nothing, let's go see the crime scene. what happened? 
 that blonde?  so, this woman killed her husband because she thought he was cheating on her?  yeah, let's check it out. 
 i think television plays a large part in both of these murderers' lives. 
 more tapes. 
 mulder, what are you doing?  what is it?  maybe it's a job for special agent pendrell and the sci-crime lab. you want it analyzed? no, that's, that's fine, i'm...  where are you?  i'm here.  so, you had it analyzed?  i just talked to agent pendrell, he said that you never showed up.  then where were you?  what was that?  there, that noise.  mulder... mulder, who's listening to...
 i told you, mom. he's here to kill me.  just step back. 
 it's not the truth, mom. he's lied to me from the beginning. he's never trusted me. you're in on it. you're one of them. you're one of the people who abducted me. you put that thing in my neck. you killed my sister!  it is. 
 mom, just get out of the way!  ashamed. i was so sure, mulder. i saw things and i heard things, and... it was just like world was turned upside-down. everybody was out to get me. i thought you were going to kill me.  i'm not following.  like me thinking that you'd betray me. i was so far gone, mulder, i thought that you had gone to the other side.  that cancer man, the man who smokes all those cigarettes, i was sure that i saw the two of you sitting in your car in the motel parking lot. you were reporting to him, you handed him a videotape. i'm... it was crazy.  what do you mean?  you think it could be him?  i'm sorry i'm late, i just got back from the document section.  the cable company employee had no criminal record. in fact, there was nothing remarkable about him whatsoever. we found a medical license under the name "doctor stroman" in falls church, virginia. he died in 1978. separator where are the wounded?  i'm fbi, where are the people who were shot?  excuse me, i'm special agent scully, fbi. i wanna talk to somebody who can tell me what happened.  what did you see?  you were shot?  what man?  what did he do?  who?  he's gone.  well nobody let him leave, he was in custody, and they were talking to him and then somehow he just disappeared.  without a trace. and you talked to him personally?  the nurse said she had a stroke. they don't know yet the nature of severity, but the doctor's on his way down.  mulder i don't wanna jump to conclusions. i don't want you to think the worst, people recover from those situations all the time.  i think she wants something to write on. [scully hands her note pad and a pen] [she writes palm]  she's had what's called a subarachnoid hemorrhage, but they're very hopeful because the circulation was restored so quickly. she's gonna be under constant supervision at the best care up in providence. it could be a lot worse.  are you ok?  correlation?  i'm sorry, i.. i don't understand.  mulder, there's no deep mystery here. your mother is at the.. the right age for something like this to happen.  well there could be several reasons huh..but to be honest, i don't think it means anything, her brain and her thought processes have been.. have been radically changed by what's happened. it could have very well affected her center of speech, her language.  i'm sure it can, and will be mulder, i'm gonna drive you to the nearest motel, it's been a very long day.  to do what?  did they get anything on the man on question? mulder: yes it's supposed to be about 8:22 [shot at the vcr counter, fast forwarding] [mulder hit the play button] [video footage playing] there, that must be him. [smith, questioned by the detective] [a person passes in front of the camera, and smith isn't there anymore after, instead of him, another guy wearing the same suit, the detective looks up and realizes smith isn't there anymore] whoa what happened there?  yeah..  could that be another detective?  where are you going?  mulder you haven't slept in almost 24 hours.  sir? excuse me but..  are you jeremiah smith?  huh, would you come with me sir. there were reports, somewhat fantastic reports about what happened next.  you haven't done anything wrong, sir  where have you been?  what are you talking about?  mulder he just came in yesterday, he just turned himself in.  he.. he gave a statement.  he works for the social security administration. [mulder leaves, followed by scully] no i lost him. [outside, close up on the beard man] who is it?  keep your hands up please.  why didn't you tell me before?  who are you?  yeah.  mulder where are you?  mulder listen to me, there's somebody here, somebody you need to talk to.  jeremiah smith.  where?  mulder, he knows about your sister.  but how? 