 hi. i got your message.  it's two-o-clock in the afternoon agent mulder.  something you couldn't show me at work.  which was what, exactly?  what do you mean?  what reason would the military have to kidnap one of their own pilots?  yeah, there were rumours those pilots were shot down at high altitudes, while they were routinely penetrating russian air space.  so?  i don't get it mulder. does this have something to do with an x-file? i thought you only liked those, er, paranormal type cases. am i missing something here?  you ok mulder?  mulder?  i checked on that file you gave me.  you failed to tell me a few things.  this isn't some ufo goose chase, you're leading me on, is it?  are you there mulder?  did you hear what i said, because the bureau has it out for us already and it would make us appear pretty stupid if my field report, read like some tabloid story.  how do you mean? 
 did you ever talk to him about this?  you know that the government is not above the law. they cannot withhold information.  how long has he been...  we'll be staying at the beech grove motel if you anything, ok?  mmm, it's called sterioptathy, it's a syndrome produced by extreme stress. pows have been known to suffer from it, they've studied it in zoo animals.  ever hear of something called the aurora project? 
 the pentagon has all but admitted, they've been testing a secret class of sub-orbital spy craft over the western us. maybe, these guys are flying those planes. maybe, these guys are the washouts.  yeah, somebody named colonel kissel will meet with us, a week from friday.  good thing we still kept that appointment. 
 sucker.  catch ye outside. 
 wanna see something weird, mulder? ellens air base isn't even on my us gs quadrant map.  you know. where are we going?  so, what exactly were you guys doing in there?  what's that?  you believe it all, don't you?  mulder, did you see their eyes? if i were that stoned i...  mulder, you could have shown that kid a picture of a flying hamburger and he would have told you that's exactly what he saw.  mulder, are you suggesting that the military is flying ufos.  mulder, c'mon. you've got two blurry photos, one of them taken almost fifty years ago, and another one, you purchased today in a roadside diner. you're going out on a pretty big limb.  tell me, one good reason why either of these photos is authentic.  just because i can't explain it, doesn't mean i'm gonna believe they were ufos.  mulder, you're crazy.  and it still doesn't explain to me, what happened to colonel budahas. thanks.  you ready for this.  we got a message from mrs. budahas, her husband came home last night. we got your message. 
 what is it?  mulder, would you explain to me what's going on.  the brain doesn't work like that, mulder. you can't just go in and erase certain files.  there are types of amnesia th..  all i'm saying, is that the science or medical technology to do what you are suggesting, does not exist.  even if they could, why would they do such a thing?  it couldn't just be that he had a nervous breakdown with a concomitant memory lapse?  what the hell is th..  federal agents. 
 nothing under idaho plate cc1356, no plate registered under that number. thanks gayle, no no no, i'm sure the other one's bogus too, bye.  so who were those guys?  something else.  what!  if, if that were true, it would be a national scandal.  did you ever stop to think that what we saw was simply an experimental plane. like the stealth bomber or, this aurora project. doesn't the government have a right and a responsibility, to protect it's secrets?  look, these are questions we have no business asking. our kidnap victim is no longer outstanding. let's get out of here mulder, while you still have a job. 
 mulder, where are you going? 
 yeah, i'm, i'm trying to make a call to washington d.c. an, and i can't seem to get a long distance line.  hello? hello?  excuse me. erm, my phone's not working, can i use yours to make a credit card call, please?  this one's not working either.  thanks. that's enough mulder. we don't know anything. anything more than when we got here, and that's what i gonna write in my field report. let's get outta here mulder, as fast as we can.separator j. edgar jr?  supervisory?  two years out of the academy, how'd he land that?  well, good for marty.  brad wilson told me, the pyshological profile you wrote on the washington crossing killer led them straight to the suspect. word has it, you're on the violent crime section's fast track.  is that what everyone thinks i do?  mulder's ideas maybe a bit out there but he is a great agent.  i take it there's a pattern?  what do you mean?  suicides? 
 bare hands. this looks like an x-file.  do you want me to ask mulder?  they're friends of mine from the academy, i'm sure they just felt more comfortable talking to me.  it probably has to do with your reputation.  mulder, look. colton plays by the book and you don't. they feel your methods, your theories are...  we just got here. er, fox mulder, tom colton.  ten murders, colton never mentioned..  are you saying, these prints are from the 1960's and the 1930's?  of course. 
 you're saying these are copy-cats.  are you suggesting that i go before the violent crime section and present a profile declaring that these murders were done by aliens?  well, what then? that, that this is the work of a hundred year old serial killer who is capable of overpowering a healthy six foot two businessman.  look, bottom line, this is colton's case. 
 mulder, they don't want you involved. they don't want to hear your theories. that's why blevins has you hidden away down here.  position ten, i copy. 
 mulder, what the hell are you doing here?  mulder, you are jeopardising my stakeout.  position ten requesting backup. 
 federal agent, i'm armed. proceed down the vent, slowly. 
 it still doesn't explain what he was doing there that late at night.  he was crawling up an air duct, by himself, without alerting security.  tom, i wanna thank you for letting me put in some time with the vcs, but i am officially assigned to the x-files.  tom, i can look out for myself.  you knew they wouldn't believe you, why did you push it?  it seems like you were acting very territorial, i don't know, forget it. 
 er, i don't know, you must have something more than your polygraph interpretation to backup this bizarre theory and i have to see what it is. how could that be?  tom. we have authorized access to this crime scene. a report of you obstructing another officer's investigation might stick out on your personnel file. 
 the victim's.  the victim is a thomas werner, single, white..  baltimore pd checked out tooms' apartment, it was a cover. no one has ever lived there and he hasn't shown up for work since he was arrested.  apartment 2 0 3. he killed the guy above him.  well, this must be tooms' great grandfather.  genetics might explain the patterns, it also might explain the sociopathic attitudes and behaviours. it begins with one family member, who raises an offspring, who raises the next child.  well, what do you think?  2023.  nope, he disappeared off the face of the earth. you?  at least in baltimore county. no, i did find one thing though, erm, it's the current address of the investigating officer at the powhatan mill murders in 1933. sir?  unofficially?  a piece of the removed liver?  here's 103. 
 there's nothing here.  i don't know. let's find out.just an old coal cellar.
 frank said he collected trophies.  it looks like the wall's deteriorating.  this looks like the opening, think there's anything inside? oh my god, mulder, it's smells like, i think it's bile. no one could live in this.  hibernates?  mulder.  in any case, he's not here now and he's gotta come back.  yeah, that'll take some fannagling.  oh, wait, i'm snagged on something, oh, it's ok, i got it. 
 i have to meet mulder..  it isn't in any way interferring with your investigation.  you can't do that.  is this what it takes to climb the ladder colton?  then i can't wait `til you fall off and land on your ass. [ mulder's answer machine ]this is fox mulder, i'm not here, leave a message.
 mulder, you must've gone out since colton gave us the night off, i say we file a complaint against him, i am furious. call me when you get in, ok, bye. 

 you'll be interested to know that i've ordered some genetic tests. the preliminary medical exam revealed quite abnormal development in the muscular and skeletal systems, as well as a continually declining metabolic rate. it dips way below the levels registered in deep sleep. did you hear what i said mulder? 

separator it just doesn't seem, substantial enough to warrant an investigation.  well, at least if we had a legitimate source, we could..  but what makes this case anymore credible, than......the hundred year old mother with the lizard baby?  oko-what?  is that supposed to mean something to me? 
 define hotspot. 
 the pilot took that photograph?  lisa tyrell, bonnie winston, dorreen mcallister, darlene mor... 
 miss darlene morris?  i'm agent scully and this is agent fox mulder, we talked with you on the phone last night.  hmmm. 

 miss morris, during the divorce, was there a custody battle?  how can you be so sure?  this is the motel we'll be staying at if you hear of anything. 
 what?  mulder, they're nsa.  they think the boy may be a threat to national security.  well how did kevin obtain top secret information? and, where do you think he got it from? 
 what is it?  and none of the information is actionable?  so it's just a random set of ones and zeroes.  i don't understand. leza atsumi: all information can be rendered digitally,  in a series of ones and zeroes. when we downloaded the data, we found an amazing range of... well see for yourself.  da vinci's vitruvian man.  a dna double helix. oh, there's lots more. 
 that's from the brandenburg concertos.  this has been a terrible mistake. and i assure you that the government will pay for all repairs and damages.  i thought we were headed back into town.  where are we going?  the key to what?  agent atsumi said it was a statistical aberration. 
 ok, i admit it, it's not much of an explanation but it..  a conduit.  but how?  mulder i know what you're thinking. i know why this is so important to you.  i know. but there is no evidence indicating an abduction.  look at that, it's her, the girl from the library.  we didn't get her name but she claimed greg and ruby had run off together.  have a seat tessa.  we know that you lied to us the other day. we know that you had the appointment with doctor fowler on august 7th. we know that you're the one that's pregnant, not ruby.  we can prove it tessa, and we can prove that greg, was the father.  this is very serious. do you understand how serious this is?  now you've waived the right to an attorney, so if you lie to us here today, you could be charged with perjury.  you said that he and ruby were seeing each other. you said that they were planning to meet at the lake, is that true?  mulder you're not seeing the whole picture here.  which is that all likelihood, ruby is dead.  they're searching the national park and a rescue dive team is coming in from des moines to drag the lake. 
 do you really think tessa seers is telling the truth?  she lied to us in the library, she lied to us about her pregnancy, what makes you think she wouldn't lie to us about killing ruby?  we have a suspect in custody, we have a confession to one murder, and we have a statement which speaks to the intent to commit another. it's over mulder. it's time to go home and turn this over to local law enforcement.  mulder where are you going?  darlene won't even let you in the door.  they don't wanna have anything to do with you...us.  mulder stop. stop running after your sister.  this won't bring her back.  kevin?  mulder.  what does it mean?  i'm gonna check upstairs.  oh my god.  just come up here.  look,  it's her, it's ruby. this is a longshot mulder, they could be anywhere.  look, there's a trail ahead. 
 go ahead. 
 mulder! 
 she's unconcious but she's still alive.  nurse says she been awake for almost an hour.  eerrr, there's no sign of head trauma, no narcotic traces or electralight abnormalities, but her white blood cell count was skyhigh.  errmmm, actually both, how did you know that?  hi.  hi ruby.  ooh, we're with the fbi, i'm special agent dana scully and this is fox mulder.  how are you feeling?  you're right, we should wait until ruby gets a little stronger. separator working hard mulder? 
 anti-gravity's right.  sorry to interrupt your serious investigation, but i just heard a story that'd just about take your knees out.  they found a body in the new jersey woods yesterday, missing it's right arm and shoulder. they think they may have been eaten off, by a human.  just outside atlantic city.  mmma, it was a homeless man. there doesn't seem to be a motive. 
 relative to whom?  it's not our case mulder, the local police are handling it.  an x-file?  yeah, it's a beast that's supposed to come out of the woods and attack cars, right. kind of like an east coast bigfoot.  save me the trouble. 
 is the autopsy report in here? 
 mulder it's the same story i've heard since i was a kid. it's a folk tale, a myth.  he was perfectly in his rights. the fbi has no overriding jurisdiction in a murder case. anyway, you'd feel the same way if someone was horning in on your work.  you missed your opening mulder, you could've really humiliated him and er, told him who the perpetrator was, the jersey devil.  
 you're kidding right.  mulder i have to be back in d.c.  mulder, it's a three hour drive back by myself......in friday night traffic, ooowh. oh c'mon, it's ok, it's alright, what happened, did you bump your head? hhmmm. 
 jungle warfare.  if the hit squad doesn't get to him before you do. 
 oooh, you're amazing.  you're just such a natural at all this, i don't know how you keep it all together.  mmmm, i don't think i'm cut out for this el.  when am i supposed to find the time?  ooooh.  know of any?  mulder?  he's a jerk. he's not a jerk, he's erm, he's obsessed with his work. hi.  oh, come in.  where are you?  you're still in atlantic city?  what's that noise in the background? 
 mulder where are you?  the drunk tank. 
 well, it's not hard to see why they mistook you for a vagrant.  am i buying or did you manage to pan-handle some spare change while you were at it? mulder.  what's gonna happen when word of this gets back to the bureau?  i'm talking about this jersey devil thing.  hyeah, i'll say.  mulder, listen to yourself. you're already ascribing it a motive and an alibi. this thing, chewing somebody's arm off is not exactly a defensive posture.  you saw something, i'll give you that but i'm not about to go in and sell it. not when it's nothing more than a sighting in a dark alley.  no. i have a date. 
 unlike you mulder, i would like to have a life.  c'mon, i have somebody i want you to meet, on the way home. c'mon. 
 yeah, humans are top carnivores, we sit at the top of the food chain and we, reduce other species' chance of survival.  i'm afraid we may have called you down here for nothing. 
 maybe, she spends her day shopping.  mulder, we've put men into space, we've built computers that work faster than the human mind.  no i was just, thinking about my godson's birthday party, eight little six year old boys running around, talk about primitive behaviour. 
 mulder? mulder where are you? 





 mulder? 
 lay back. oh, mulder you're hurt.  yeah well, she just about ripped your lungs out. yeah i need to talk somebody who can get me federal jurisdiction on this case. mulder.  the us assistant d.a.'s on the phone with the bureau right now, he wants to know what the hell is going on up here in atlantic city.  the atlantic city major crime unit has filed a complaint that we're endangering a murder investigation.  hi, this just came through, it's the posthumous medical exam on the woman's body. they found fragments of human bones still in her digestive tract, they estimated her age to be twenty-five to thirty years. now they allowed dr. diamond to do a medical exam of the body but he found nothing that suggested prehistoric bone structure or physiology. now the acpd has her listed as a jane doe, and a search for her identity in state psychiatric records has begun, in earnest.  they have also released the medical exam from the male body that they found, his age is estimated to be about forty years.  the medical exam of the women's uterus does seem to indicate that she may have given birth.  mulder will you do me a favour, will you just go out and have a beer, will you take the day off. i'll cover for you, will you just, take some time for yourself.  hello?  oh hi. 
 a guy.  same guy.  i don't think so.  not at this time. 
 i'm going with you to the smithsonian.  keep that up mulder and i'll hurt you like that beast-woman. 
 look who's holding the door. 
separator any sign of external legions or surface burns?  well, it can't be long. the body's still warm.  if you've conducted your investigation, why consult us?  who do you think they were?  how can the esophagus be crushed without the neck even being touched?  psychokinesis? you mean how carrie got even at the prom?  ok, i'm intrigued. how can we investigate, we have nothing to go on. (mulder puts his arm around her shoulders and brings his eyeglasses up and exhales on them. there is a perfect fingerprint on each lens. he has ties to extremist group operating in the us. the isfahan. they take their name from a city in iran. recently they've been working out of philadelphia.  i'll talk to the philly p.d. who discovered their bodies?   lauren kyte. 858 franklin, bensalem. why would the isfahan being robbing someone for 40 bucks at an atm machine?  it's another person.  well, the resolution is too poor. it won't help much to enhance it.  have you seen either of these two men before?  take your time.  i'm afraid you have.  this is a surveillance picture from your atm.   have you ever seen this person before?   she knows who the other person in that photo is.  what the hell's going on?  yeah. 
 yeah. i'm fine. except i have a waiting-in-line-at-the-dmv-sized headache.  they check out the car?  then someone tampered with it while we were in her house.  they are on.  she was in our presence the entire time we were at her house.  if a person could generate that much energy, their body would break down. they'd start glowing like those lights.  are you saying lauren kyte crashed our car?  they're here...   oh, come on mulder, look at the tangible evidence. two mid-east extremists are killed trying to assault a woman working for a manufacturer of parts for the defense department. while we questioned her our car is sabotaged. now in both those cases, someone else may have committed those acts. maybe the same someone we saw in those atm photos. the mystery isn't psychokinetic energy, it's her accomplice. 
 look at this one.   she was only three years old.  he and lauren kyte are in on something. maybe an illegal deal through his company. something the cia was interested in.  wait, you think i'm right?  may we see the autopsy report, please?   cause of death... arterial hemorrhage...  well there seems to be some blood work missing here.  how did you know?  lauren kyte.  yes, there is. his body's tissues and organs were donated. the tests are conclusive, the dura matter does belong to howard graves. he is indeed, very dead. 
 what case? you're the ones who've been withholding information.   all right, everyone. we have a warrant to search the premises for evidence of the sale of restricted manufactured parts. the evidence may be in the form of falsified export licences, parts manifests, communiques. it could be on computer disks or hard copy.  lets go.  now, it will most likely be in dorland's office. we'll conduct the search, but we need you to guide us so we need you to be strong, okay? 
 mulder! (inside the office, it's dark and we hear scully yelling. pictures fly from the wall. drawers open and papers fly around the room. the letter opener hovers in front of dorland's face. it turns and flies into the wall. it slits the wallpaper about two feet and stops. the noise and flying papers die down and scully bolts into the room. she looks around at the mess.)  my god. (mulder walks across the wall to wall paper to the wall and takes a floppy disk out from behind the wallpaper.)  out of here, or away from the ghost of howard graves?   i'd settle for a life in this one.  yes.   you're not missing much. it's just a big bell with a big crack, and you have to wait in a long line.  why now? separator no, really ...  and it wasn't accidental?  who's running the investigation?  the forensics instructor at the academy?  we used to call her the iron maiden.  how come you two went your separate ways?  seriously.  and you?  i know where you ended up. what about jerry?  what kind of bad luck?   twenty-nine?  must be for the visually impaired.  yeah. what was that? 
 hello?  this is agent dana scully.  uh, actually, i think everything's okay. 
 ...he completed the circuit.  and to throw a 180 pound man ten feet.    it's past three.  maybe if you cleaned your desk more than once a year.  come on. we're late. 
  is that your profile?  what did he say?  i just got off the phone with peterson, the systems engineer.   he said it would be a short list. and it's headline news how much this guy despised drake.  and fully consistent with jerry's excellent behavioral profile.   brad wilczek?  we're with the fbi.  i take it benjamin drake fit into the first category.  and you had a different vision for the company?  could you have done it?  you don't seem too worried.   mulder, take a look.  we borrowed this from the voice biometrics lab at georgetown.  it's a computer spectrogram capable of identifying individual speech patterns. now this is the recording the central operating system made of the phone call drake received just before he died. recording: at the tone, eastern standard time will be 7:35 p.m. and this we spliced together from a series of lectures brad wilczek gave at the smithsonian last year. recording 2: at the tone, eastern standard time will be 7:35 p.m. now we'll stack them.   which means that he was the one that killed drake. he had the motive and the means. and now we have the physical evidence.  judge benson lives in washington heights. i can get a warrant in less than an hour.  i heard about jerry. i'm sorry.  what?  to destroy evidence. to cover his tracks.  mulder, you've been through a lot - - more than i think even you realize.   he just signed a confession. how much proof do you need? mulder, don't you see, blaming the machine is an alibi, and a bad one.  so the machine killed drake out of self-defense?  mulder, that level of artificial intelligence is decades away from being realized.   mulder, i think you're looking for something that isn't there. and i think it has something to do with jerry. maybe it wouldn't be such a bad idea if you talked to someone.  where are you going?  hello? (modem sounds are heard over the phone. scully hangs up and runs to her computer which is displaying her files.) oh my god. (dials out on another line.) this is special agent dana scully, id number 2317-616. i need you to run a quick trace on a number for me. yeah, 202-555-6431. yeah, that's my number. somebody's accessing my computer. mulder!  someone or something's been scanning my computer files. tapping my phones. i traced the line. it came from somewhere in there.  how can we get in?  mulder! 
 oh, great. mulder? 
 what are you doing?  unh....  ahhhhh!!!!! 

  put down the gun.  shut up and drop the gun.   mulder, put in the disc. 
separator there's no football on wednesday. 
 dr. dasilva, dr. hodge?  hi, agent mulder, agent scully...  i assume you all took a look at the tape. 
 where do we start?  flashing. (she takes a picture. mulder opens up a cabinet that says "ice cores 3,175 - 3,260. inside there are piles of ice inside containers. the ice is melting. murphy walks up behind him.) you okay?  look at this. black nodules. swollen lymph nodes.  this dog has got a skin irritation on it's neck.  look at this, look at this! (hodge runs over to look. the bump recedes back away from view.) from the autopsies, it's clear that these men killed each other. there are contusions around the throat areas of three men, evidence of strangulation. (mulder nods. bear starts listening.)richter and campbell killed themselves. i also found tissue damage due to fever. no. none of them had the black nodules.  i analyzed two samples. (mulder walks over.) there seems to be a presence of ammonium hydroxide in richter's blood sample. (dasilva walks in and over.) that same thing is in richter's blood. (she walks over to her microscope.)what if that single-celled organism is the larval stage of a larger animal?(hodge looks up from his microscope and walks over.) the evidence is there.  hey, look, there's only one way to proceed. a good doctor eliminates every possibility. we must determine if any of us is infected. (there is an uncomfortable pause.) we can't let him leave without him being checked.  well, we don't have time to argue about it.  what are you gonna do? (murphy holds bear's head down as dasilva comes back with the bag.) he's dead. (mulder walks over to bear, still slumped over the table. blood is on the table as well as the jar with the worm inside it. later, the jar is now filled with ammonia and the worm swims around inside.) all of the other dead bodies had the creature. this is the only one that's still alive. (they all walk over to the counter.) no. it appears that they were in the hypothalamus gland deep in the brain. (she sets the jar down and fills it with ammonia.) it's a gland that secretes hormones although i don't know why a parasite would want to attach to it. (she puts the jar into the freezer and takes off her coat. she walks over to the counter as hodge starts walking to the freezer.) well, a parasite shouldn't want to kill it's host.  if the worm makes people violently aggresive then why did richter and campbell kill themselves?  i'm just, uh... double-checking. making sure i didn't miss anything.  sleep. i'm so tired i can't sleep.  mulder, i don't want to waste a second trying to find a way to kill this thing. (she starts out.) no.  mulder, that pilot developed surface symptoms within a few minutes. within a few hours, that parasite had total control. what would happen if this got into the population? a city the size of new york could be infected within a few days.  mulder, if we don't kill it now, we run the risk of becoming richter and campbell with guns to our heads.  future? mulder, how can you talk about the future when right now, there's... (trails off illegibly) ...or anyone has the right to?  ...about them posing a biological hazard!  it can! by extermination, we should take those bodies, worms and all, outside and incinerate them! (hodge, murphy and dasilva walk in.) yes, i'm fine. it's nothing.  what the hell are you trying to say? (she goes to get in hodge's face when mulder gets between them.) no. we do them in front of each other. no secrets. (mulder, murphy and hodge all start to undress in a room.) good night, mulder.  at least everyone's okay.  mulder, what are you doing?  no, he said he didn't do it.  you checked him yourself, hodge.  stop it! just stop it, shut up! (hodge and mulder glare at each other.)mulder, just put the gun down and let hodge give you a blood test. then just turn around and let us take a look at your neck!  mulder!  mulder, you have to understand! (mulder points his gun at scully.) you put it down first!  mulder... you may not be who you are. (mulder comes to his senses and lowers the gun. we see mulder stepping into a dark storage room. he turns on the light as scully stands in the doorway. he faces her.) you know what i was doing.  there's four of us.  if mulder is infected, it's not his fault! we can't turn our backs on him now, he needs us to help him!  this is a.i.c.p. calling doolittle airfield, please come in. (static.)this is the arctic ice core project sending a general distress call, please respond!(static. hodge and dasilva looks through microscopes. hodge is looking at the larvae.) hodge.  come take a look at this. the larvae from two different worms killed each other. (hodge looks in the microscope. scully goes over to the freezer and moves one of the jars from the bottom shelf right next to the other one. the worms try to get at each other through the glass. dasilva and hodge come over and look.)an individual worm will not tolerate another invading it's host. it does to the invader what it did to humans. it makes them kill. look at the evidence in the microscope. this thing does not like company.  i want to talk to him first. try to make this voluntary.  if anything happens, you come inside. i can't do this to him until i'm sure. (the door slides open and mulder gets to his feet quickly, flinching.) yes. (the door slams shut. scully turns on the light.) no one's been killed since you've been in here.  we found a way to kill it. two worms in one host will kill each other.  (whispering) if that's true, then why didn't you let us inspect you?  (whispering) okay. but now they're not here. (mulder turns around. scully pulls down the back of his shirt and inspects his neck. no bump. scully turns to leave but mulder grabs her. she gasps in shock. she starts to turn her head but he gently pushes her back to facing forward. he pulls down the back of her shirt and inspects her. no bump as well. outside, dasilva puts the jar down on a small table with forceps.) i just examined him. he's... uninfected.  which means that it must be one of you.  hodge! now! (mulder holds up her head so hodge can put the worm in.)mulder! after this, there won't be any left! it's all right. it's all over. it all stops right here. right now. who did that?  leave it there. 
separator what did the note say?  why the cloak and dagger routine?  think it's a crank?  hi. special agent dana scully.  what brings you to washington?  how do you mean? michelle: the valve is made of ferrocarbon titanium. to score, that material would take extreme temperatures : launch pad temperatures. if anyone at nasa were to take a look at that analysis, they would say that it would be impossible for anyone to do that type of damage undetected. do you have any idea who may have sent that to you?  why would somebody want to sabotage the space shuttle?  and we thought we could rest easy with the fall of the soviet union.  evidence of what?  oh, of course.  
 yeah, it ranks right up there with getting a pony and learning how to braid my own hair.  do you think this is sabotage?  yeah, but they usually fix them, right?  she's turning. (michelle driving. mars face comes out of the rain and fog and .....aaaagggghhhh!!! michelle gets run off the road and car flips over. (mulder and scully pull up behind overturned car and get out.) mulder? (emergency lights on. mulder sees someone in corner) is it going to work?   what just happened?   (to michelle) how did he know what he did was going to work?  why would he take that risk?  so much for your boyhood hero. (mulder following belt down hallway) why does she need belt?  it's an oxygen leak. even i can figure out what happens when you run out of oxygen.  where the hell is he? 
 i'm going to go get security. 
 michelle!  i think she's right, mulder. you saw him in there. he's losing it.  did he? or did he put their lives in unnecessary jeopardy? if he can't deliver that payload, congress is going to kill the space program.  look, mulder. i think somebody must have sabotaged the space shuttle because too many things have gone wrong. i think col. belt knows about it and he's known about it from the beginning.  what exactly are we looking for?  a needle in a haystack. 
 mulder, i found it. this is the same diagram that was sent to michelle...ordered by col. belt. which means he knew about the faulty valve.  are you saying he might have known about the challenger defect?  oh my god.  he's having some kind of a seizure, mulder.  (suddenly remembering 7 years of med school) give him 10 milligrams of diazepam.  he's going to hurt himself, mulder.  mulder, you're risking an anuerysm.  you're going to kill him, mulder.  we've got to get him to a hospital. they made it.  i just heard.  the doctors who examined him said he was experiencing severe dementia.  he ordered those x-rays of the damaged parts.  while simultaneously trying to kill them?  there's an investigation, you know. they haven't ruled out foul play. separator this isn't funny, mulder.  who?  is that what this is about?  try explaining that to section cheif mcgrath. he stepped over blevins ordering a full inquiry. with a recommendation...mulder he wants to shut down the x-files. and he wants you out of the bureau.  i don't understand you mulder. why you're always defying protocol? ignoring jurisdiction...  because it wasn't. what you saw was not a toxic spill. but it wasn't a ufo either.  it was a downed libyan jet with a nuclear warhead.  over us air space... they'd been picking up low grade levels of radiation indicating that a plutonium casing may have cracked. so to avoid mass panic...  that story happens to be highly classified.  if they're searching for anyone, its probably the pilot.  well, maybe he ejected.  you can't be serious!  mulder, the hearing is tomorrow morning at ten o'clock.  my assignment is to bring you back, not to help you dig yourself in deeper.  what's going on?  who would...  get your hands up!  a-mazing.  i'm sorry about your husband.  mrs. wright, we want to help you.  the government can't do that. i'm sure if you appealed to...  you're entitled to the truth.  come on, mulder. lets get this over with.  mulder - look at this.   mulder!  where do you think you are going? look, if we go to the airport right now, we might make the plane. which would at least give you half a chance of defending yourself.  yeah, so what?  they're dead. 
 (to cch) what are you doing? you have a very sick man in there.  he's a delusional schitzophrenic.  what?!  no, sir  no, sir.  yes.  sir. request permision to make a statement.  sir, its unfair to judge mulder by the same criteria...  but sir, i...  good luck separator death by hypovolaemia. 95% blood loss. that's over 4 liters of blood.  the man's daughter, 8 years old... was away from his side for no more than 10 minutes. she doesn't remember anything, there was no trace evidence found at the crime scene.  oh, there were two small puncture wounds.  how could that be?  but there was no sign of a struggle. how could a man just sit through a blood letting?  wait a minute. these x-files indicate ufo related phenomena. often there are related sightings in the sky near the incidences, along with surface burns...  mulder, why would alien beings travel light years through space in order to play doctor on cattle?  can we talk to her now? 
 hi. i know you must be feeling really sad right now. and scared. but we want to find out what happened so we can help stop whoever hurt your daddy. okay? 
 okay. did you ever see any strangers with your daddy at home? 
 did you ever see... anyone yell at your daddy or your daddy yell at them?  can you think of anyone who would want to hurt your daddy?  scully... where?  mulder... 
 there's been another one. the victim, doug reardon, was married with one daughter. cause of death, hypovilemia. mulder, this is crazy. they also found traces of the poison digitalis.  it appears we have two serial killers working in tandem.  mulder, nothing beyond your leading questions to teena simmons substantiates a ufo mutilation theory.  yes... the police report states that she remembers nothing. ah... she's with her mother and family in sacramento.  tomorrow.  she was kidnaped from the social services home around 11 p.m. last night. looks like someone was afraid she might remember too much.  connecticut state troopers set up road blocks within a half an hour. nothing.  i told them to contact us if they happen to find her. 
 teena?  what's your name?  may i ask... was cindy adopted?  so, i assume you have all the proper documentation. birth certificate...  no. mrs. reardon. this is not your daughter. that girl's name is teena simmons. she lives 3,000 miles away in connecticut. that man, her father, was killed in the same manner as your husband.  do you still believe this is ufo related? cindy reardon didn't see red lightening.  well, there seems to be the random possibility that two people can have an unrelated likeness.  the girls are the one and only link between identical murders.  kidnaped.  where are you going?  and you expect the pattern to continue.  okay. i'll call the san francisco bureau and get someone to relieve you.  could a patient have believed she was receiving her own eggs but actually receive another without her knowledge?  are you ever aware of having patients by the name of claudia and joel simmons?  both the simmons are dead. and their daughter has been kidnaped. i think any information that you have that could help overrides your policy. you have copies of their records sent to greenwich, ct, in 1991... they came here 9 years ago under the supervision of a dr. sally kendrick? 
 there a problem?  and now you don't sound too thrilled.  did you report this to the ama?  and what happened?  dr. kendrick was the supervising physician in both the reardon's and simmons' ivf program. it seems she was experimenting at the clinic.  well, she must have had an accomplice to have done both murders.  mulder, does this mean you've abandoned your ufo connection?  hello? 
 hello? 
 just a couple of clicks. must be the wrong number.  mulder, you're rushing me out of the room.  you got a girl coming over?  why the flashlights?  sally kendrick...  are you sally kendrick?  did you work for the luther stapes center for reproductive medicine in 1985?  my god. it's the girls.  until i heard that, i was beginning to suspect the girls.  you suppose these girls have any idea of what they are?  mulder, let's go. there's someone upstairs, wait outside. suspect's name is sally kendrick. early 40's, 5'8, 135 pounds. now she may have an accomplice, similar in appearance. kendrick is driving a light blue '93 corolla. she has exceptional strength for her size. so you must consider her armed and dangerous. quite possibly she'll display severe psychotic behavior. the oakland bureau was here to orchestrate a search across the bridge. 
 and then what do we do? okay, good. i want you to start a check on every single passenger for every flight that left the terminal over the past twelve hours. i want you to check every single terminal to make sure she's not hiding out somewhere for a later flight. and remember, she may have an accomplice. 
 we just found the car at the airport.  someone else could have picked up the little girl without the manager knowing about it. the place is crawling with vacationing families. there would be hundreds of little kids running around.  that's it. who's they?  it's alright. we'll take care of you. you're safe with us. looks like the eves mixed about 4 ounces of digitalis in each glass.  it has a sweet flavor. it's probably not even perceptible in soda. 
 we could take them to get checked out by a doctor.  we're going to take you back.  they've already grown so attached. it's going to be hard when teena gets placed in foster care.  i could use some caffeine. let's go.  um, tastes syrupy. 
 what? 
 mulder...  we didn't drink enough to make us sick. 
 we are the police. 
 mulder! 
 did you see the twins we were with? separator i forgot what it was like to spend a day in court.  it's open.  it's unlocked.  must be an x-file. what's that?
 what do you think it is?  hello.  three-pipe problem?  how private?  mulder, you just keep unfolding like a flower. 
 yeah, i noticed how you couldn't drop everything fast enough in order to help her out.  oh, is that what you were extending?  something tells me you're not going to get rid of her that easily. 
 so, sherlock, is the game afoot?  what do you mean?  put me through what?  what are you talking about?  wait, and phoebe knows about this?  so she shows up knowing the power she has over you and then she makes you walk through fire, is that it?  mulder? are you sure you don't want me to help you out on this one?  after reviewing the files of the scotland yard arson murders, two points remain unexplained. one is the use of an untraceable accelerant. the other involves the victims. since they all burned in the presence of family members in safe surroundings, this indicates unusually intimate access to the victims by the arsonist. the arsonist is most likely a male, less than twenty-five years of age. he will often act out of impulse, satisfying sexual urges or insecurities with destructive behavior, which compensates for his social inadequacies or maladjustment. (l'ively looks at the boys.) agent beatty? 
 i'm special agent dana scully. can i... steal a minute of your time?  i'm... working with agent mulder.  you mentioned that the arsonist might be using some kind of rocket fuel as an accelerant.  what if he got some of this fuel into some... hand cream or, uh...  the arsonist is usually unmarried and prone to excessive fantasies about women or men who are inaccessible to him. often, the setting of fires results from his cowardice and inability to develop a natural relationship. his crimes are often very clever and elaborately planned. the suspicious nature of the fire last night strongly suggests the arsonist has followed lord marsden to the united states. a check of all recent immigrations in the northeastern area is underway. it has become not a matter of if, but when he will strike. 
 thank you.  it's scully, where are you? 
 there's something i need to show you. i'm going to come up there.
 i might have some information... ...on the identity of your arson suspect.you there, mulder?
 can i meet you somewhere? 
 it's the driver.  what's the matter?  yes.  michael? 
 quick, come on... 
 freeze! federal agent.  stay right where you are. 
  care to take me to lunch? scare you? where is phoebe? 
 you don't know? she didn't call?  did you play it?  why not? aren't you curious what's on it?  x-file number 11214893. addendum to the file opened by special agent mulder. the arson suspect cecil l'ively was admitted to boston mercy hospital with fifth and sixth-degree burns over his entire body. military burn specialists have been brought in to study the case which they're calling "extraordinary." not only for the fact that the suspect survived, but for the rapid regeneration of his basal cell tissue. full recovery is anticipated in as little as a month.l'ively is being held in a high-security medical facility... ...confined to a hyperbaric chamber until he can be tried on murder charges in the death of a massachusetts caretaker. his body temperature remains at a steady 109 degrees. house technicians have removed everything flammable from his room due to several fires which have broken out in the vicinity. according to agent mulder, further incarceration remains a problem for federal penal authorities.
separator as a captain, he was entitled to burial at arlington with full ceremony.  i know that you and dad were... disappointed that i chose the path i'm on instead of medicine but i need to know... was he at all proud of me?  no. it's my father. i'm sorry, i'm sorry...  did boggs confess?  i lied to the police about how i found the warehouse. i didn't notice any suspicious activities.  it was where boggs said it would be.  i didn't go looking for it! i came across an area that had landmarks he spoke of...  i thought it would be a better explanation under the circumstances.  i thought that you'd be pleased that i opened myself to extreme possibilities.  i love this job.  incredible! they found them?  i don't understand, why didn't the police notify us?  go. 
 mulder, it's you. 
 mulder... even if he is setting us up, we have to follow because in three days...  and then a day later, our only connection to the case will be pulling up a chair at the gas chamber. we have to deal.
 sweep the docks! 
 mulder! 
 we need an ambulance... officer down! 
 he's reliving it. that would explain the deadline. 
 you set us up. you're in on this with lucas henry. this was a trap for mulder because he helped put you away. well, i came here to tell you that if he dies because of what you've done, four days from now, no one will be able to stop me from being the one that will throw the switch and gas you out of this life for good, you son of a bitch! 
 no! no, i do not believe you! 
 that could be a moment from any kid's life. 
 i'll believe you... if you let... me talk to him. 
 it may be a cold dark place for you but it's not for mulder and it's not for my father.  i don't believe you.  guard! 
 there's still no sign of lucas henry or jim summers. the raliegh police said...  mulder, i never thought i'd say this... but what if there's another explanation?  all right, mr. boggs... you got your deal. 
 alright, where are they? 
 luther, if you really were psychic...  federal agents, we're armed! drop your weapon. 
 go! 
 i was considering boggs. if he knew that i was your partner, he could have found out everything he knew about me. about my father...  "beyond the sea" was playing at my parents' wedding. visions of deceased loved ones are a common psychological phenomena. if he knew that my father had...  i'm afraid. i'm afraid to believe.  but i do know.  he was my father. 
separator how's that? horton: security monitor records the victim entering the room with a woman at 10:13. same monitor records a male leaving just after midnight. couldn't she just have changed clothes?  well, we're 30 floors up, no other means of egress. did the medical examiner establish a cause of death?  hard to imagine in this day and age someone having sex with a perfect stranger. any sign of robbery?  you know, i don't even know why we got this call in the first place.  all young, healthy adults.  you think there's a new drug on the streets?  the chemicals animals secrete? you mean, sexual attractants?  so you think somebody is synthesizing them?  well, there's still a question as to whether humans can produce pheromones. so how can that be?  he or she? you've got victims of both sexes. both a man and a woman on the hotel security monitor.  so what is our profile of the killer? indeterminate height, weight, sex. unarmed but extremely attractive.  the killer's moving south.  right. they live up there without electricity, phones, any modern amenities, a lot like the amish.  what's so weird about that?  well, wait a minute. aren't these people famous for their abstinence and their pure christian ways?  we're investigating a possible murder.  did the kindred let you take those pictures?   hi. 
 she must have problems on the asphalt. has she ever thrown a shoe?  what's her name?  that's sweet. did you name her?  that's all right.  i'm dana scully. i don't mean you any harm. 
 i was just talking ... 
 yeah, i think so.  there's something up there, mulder.  after you. 
 what does the map say?  mulder, look. 
 we're fbi agents. federal police.  i'm going to have to ask you to remain at a distance, please, sir.  we just want to have a few questions answered.  we have pictures.  a crime has been committed. we have certain questions that we need answered, if you'll forgive us.  hotel security videos of a man and a woman who may have committed a murder.  in a hotel in washington, dc.  and may kill again, which is why we need your help.  he can't breathe.  he's choking to death! 
 take me back to the 20th century.  believe all what?  well, they better take care of their own or that man at the dinner table is a dead man.  what? the choking?  do you think they know who the murderer is?  i know, that was odd. 
 these people have probably been intermarrying for years.  what are you doing?  uh-huh. 
 what do you think?  the murders?  what's his name?  what do you mean, different?  we're not sure. all of the victims died of cardiac arrest.  maybe, how do you know that? 
 why did you keep them?  you said marty was different.  how? how did he kill his victims?  does it have something to do with the ceremony in the barn tonight? 
 what are you doing? 
 oh ... oh. 
  i don't know.  no. 
 thanks.  better ... a little embarrassed, actually.  it's like i don't remember ...  because he told me he knew who the killer was.  i believed him. 
 so what did you see down in the cellar?  how do you know he was alive?  changing sexes?  so you're saying these people ...  think he was trying to kill me?  well, if he was trying to kill me, why did they let us go?  did she touch you or make physical contact in any other manner?  what did you see, michael?  she was a man.  well, i can't rule out the possiblity that who we're looking for is a transvestite.  i just don't want us to ignore the obvious. i mean, how else could you explain a woman overpowering a 200-pound cop? she was a he. 
 they're gone. 
 i don't understand. how can they just disappear? they have no means of transportation. separator come on, jack.  no. you cant give up on him.  go up to 400.  im a doctor. go up to 400, or ill do it myself.  give him another amp of epi intracardial and go up to 400 again.  do it.  again. come on, jack.  any word from willis?  yeah. three fingers on dupre's left hand were severed by surgical shears. we lifted prints. they're willis.  yeah, he lived the case. it was all he thought about, talked about.  that maybe this is some kind of post-trauma psychosis. like the way soldiers sometimes mutilate the body of a dead enemy.  they met while she was serving a ten year sentence for manslaughter at the women's correctional facility of maryland.  until the warden found out about their secret. according to lula's cell mate they carried on quite a torrid romance.  one week before the first robbery at annapolis savings and loan. the 65-year-old female teller was pistol-whipped. died from a massive subdural hemorrhage all because she didnt put the money in the bag fast enough.  well, apparently they took turns --- one pulling a job while the other one drove getaway. between the two of them, theyve killed seven people and gotten away with close to $100,000.  well, were putting her face out there --- local newspapers, americas most wanted.  am i boring you?  yeah. last may in atlantic city. so what?  it's a left thumbprint.  what do you mean, "whoever"? it was willis.  i'm not sure where you're going.  just over 13 minutes.  it could be anything an instrument malfunction, electrical overload.   two heartbeats.  right.  technically, but we resuscitated willis.   mulder.  the usual stuff the tunnel, the light, people rising up and viewing their own bodies.  some sort of disassociative, hallucinatory activity.  changed how?  i dont understand.  what happened?   
 i dont discount the near-death experience because it can be explained empirically by stimulation of the temporal lobe.  its my still best guess jacks disappearance can be explained in psychological, not supernatural, terms.  the stress of the case, the trauma of being shot.. jacks personality.   we dated for almost a year. he was my instructor at the academy. 
  we even had the same birthday. we used to celebrate in some dive in statford that had a slanting pool table. but it was always so hard for jack to relax. it was impossible for him really. he was always so intense, so relentlessly determined.  i believe its a long way from saying jack had a near-death experience to saying his bodys been inhabited by warren dupre.  a long way. thats lulas brother.  whats his story?  excuse me.  jack 
  is there a problem here?  its all right, officer. this is agent jack willis. hes with the violent crimes section of the washington bureau.  come on. lets talk out here.   for gods sake, willis, what happened? half the bureaus been looking for you. where have you been?  im taking you back to the hospital. youre in no shape to be ---  youre not ready to be here.  jack. youre recovering from a major trauma. its a miracle youre even able to walk around.  jack  as a matter of fact he was.   you did open the book on this one.  all right. but as a colleague and as a friend im recommending you undergo a full medical evaluation --- physical and psychological.   youre two months early.  we do.  you mean you tested him.  what evidence?   and you think willis is responsible?  cant you accept the possibility that this isnt an x-file? aside from the expected level of post-trauma stress, jack passed both of his evaluations --- physical and psychological.  anyway, just because someone forgets a birthday doesnt mean that hes been possessed. when i was studying for my medical boards, i forgot my birthday too.  like i said, mulder, stress, all right? we both know it can significantly affect someones cursive standard. im afraid this doesnt prove a thing. jack. where are you going?  hotline?  jack, can i ask you something?   the phillips murder. the print mulder lifted off the television --- its missing.  and you were carrying the evidence back.  number 202.  multrevich.  wheres 207?  all right, mr. multrevich, we want you to go back inside your apartment and stay away from the windows. 
 wheres our back up? you said you called them, right?  im going to call in again. 
 ill check back here. 
 face down! face down! hands behind your back. now! 
 shes all yours, jack.   i already cuffed her.  whats going on, jack?  jack   mulder?   dont ---   its not going to work, jack.  bureau policy prohibits negotiating with kidnappers. but you already know that, dont you, jack?  your name is jack willis. you were born february 23, 1957. you live at 51 stanhope ---  we spent a weekend up at pine barrens. you taught me how to fish through the ice. it was your parents cabin. jack, try to remember. we drove up in a snowstorm. come on, jack. 
 what did you see?  you *are* my friend.  no. we brought you back.  no. you wont kill me, jack.   soda. how much of that have you had?  jack willis is diabetic. which means youre diabetic. too much sugar in the system could lead to hyperglycemia.  abdominal pain is the first sign of impending diabetic coma. you need insulin. hold on. 
 without this medicine, he dies.   hmn? huh?  yes, jack. there was lots of snow.  it was december. it was the weekend after thanksgiving.   yeah. thats right. there was a wood-burning stove right in the middle of the room.  yeah.   yeah. 
 no! jack, dont close your eyes. come on, keep talking. jack, keep talking. come on.  no. no. 
 hes dead. its all on you now. hes dead because of you.  jack!  jack, put the gun down.  no! 
 jack!   jack!? 
 "happy 35th, love d." i got it for him three years ago.  uh .. no. jack was an only child. both his parents died when he was in college. theres a kid over in parklawn. jacks been his big brother so im going to go and see him tomorrow. what am i going to tell him?  which is?   what am i supposed to tell myself?  what does that mean? separator i still don't get it. what does this have to do with us?  thank you.  what happened here?  what is it?  who's barnett? 
 what was the theory?  sort of?  "fox can't guard the chicken coop."  so you never caught him?  and what happened to barnett?  so you think he escaped?  you're sure?  where's mulder?  he's got a clear shot.  but he couldn't.  because it's not by the book.  so, mulder did shoot barnett.  probably had a lot to do with the sentence the judge gave barnett.  what did henderson come up with?  what's that?  then it must be a very clever copycat.  pull any prints?  barnett had a lot of time on his hands while he was in prison, maybe he planned it with someone on the outside. 
 he planned to get you, didn't he? i was just down talking to agent purdue. you did the right thing, mulder.  sorry. this was just faxed. this is a copy of john barnett's last will and testament. no surviving relatives, left what little he had to another prisoner... a joe crandall... and instructions for his body to be cremated. his will was executed six months after his death and this document states that his ashes were spread along the bank of the delaware river by an employee of the crematory used by the prison. he left you everything he had in his will. you must've known him better than pretty well.  on his death certificate. 
 what doctor?  how could you tell barnett wasn't dead? 
 what are you going to do?  you mean the ghost of john barnett.  hello? yeah, just a minute. it's for you.
 all right, all right... 
 you lost him.  was it barnett?  what did he mean by that?  i was just trying to find you. listen to this. according to the a.m.a., doctor ridley, who signed barnett's death certificate, hasn't officially been a doctor since 1979.  his membership expired and wasn't renowed after the state of maryland revoked his medical license for flagrant research malpractice and misuse of a government grant. 
 right here. in the federal journal for the national institute of health. 
 he was conducting experiments on young children afflicted with a disease called progeria. 
 but fatal.  so, how did doctor ridley eventually lose his medical license?  i'm afraid your colleague, doctor ridley, has dropped off the face of the earth.  you just don't reverse aging.  listen to what you're saying.  mulder, it's science fiction.  ridley's notes from the human trials at n.i.h. indicate he didn't see aging as inevitable but as an opportunistic disease. a disease that could be prevented, reversed even, by changing the chemical cues that trigger certain genes. however, there is no evidence whatsoever that ridley's work yielded any results or that his theories, all hope to the contrary, hold any validity. according to the leading scientific journals, projections on this kind of genetic engineering are at best speculative and futuristic.
 who is it?  the same disease that kills the kids suffering from progeria?  but how?  the material that insulates neurons in the body.  i, i'm afraid to ask. what kind of hand did you grow?  unbelievable.  because you knew that if your theories panned out...  it's my private answering machine. or at least it used to be. 
 when i ran from the shower this morning, i heard someone dialing in my private code and replaying my messages. last night, before doctor ridley, i could have sworn that someone was in my apartment. but when ridley knocked, i thought i'd mistaken the noise for him.  this morning, i took this down to prints before i came here. john barnett's left index oblique is on the underside of this unit. 
 uh, that my mother called for no reason and i'm meeting a friend before her cello recital.  i'm including a diagram of the theater. you have six front entrances and four more backstage. 
 it's the first time i've ever played the target.  gun! 
 like somebody kicked me in the ribs.  what about him?  is barnett conscious?  mulder, i know what you did wasn't by the book.  they lost him.  where do you think it is? 
 if it didn't destroy it, chances are that somehow, someday, somebody will find it. separator from the truckers description, the shape he fired on could conceivably have been a mountain lion.  the national weather service last night reported atmospheric conditions in this area that were possibly conducive to lightning.  it is feasible that the truck was struck by lightning, creating the electrical failure.  and you know, theres a marsh over there. the lights the driver saw may have been swamp gas.  its a natural phenonemon in which phospine and methane rising from decaying organic matter ignite, creating globes of blue flame. 
 mulder, none of that evidence is conclusive.  isnt it more plausible that an exhausted truck driver became swept up in the hysteria and fired at hallucinations? i mean, after all, the road can play tricks on you.  pardon me for asking, but how long have you had that cough? 
 im just concerned, you said you were a veteran.  the cough, the fever, the rash. those are all symptoms of gulf war syndrome.  why?  ranheim was sick.  mm-hmm. what are you suggesting, that gulf war syndrome is caused by ufos? mulder, the only ufos people are likely to see are secret military aircraft.  well, there is a base in little rock. you think thats what the air force was flying that night?  possibly. 
 mulder, the military isnt going to talk about classified aircraft.  hmm.  i think you give the government too much credit. i mean, the government cant control the defecit or manage crime what makes you think they could plan and execute such an elaborate conspiracy?  how can they do that?  hmmm ill check. um-hmmm.
 hey! 
 this strip is an anti-counterfeiting measure.  those were the most paranoid people i have ever met. i dont know how you could think that what they say is even remotely plausible.  did you see the way they answered the telephone? they probably think that every call that they get is monitored and theyre followed wherever they go. its a form of self-delusion. it makes them think that what theyre doing is important enough that somebody would 
 mulder, this photograph is a fake.  look. this soldiers shadow is alledgedly created by the lights from the ufo. but it falls in a direction contradictory to the crafts position. now look closely at the color of the light reflected in the windshield. now that reflection should be from the red lights in the ufo but it doesnt match the color of the ships light.  we should have it analyzed. 
 well, maybe youre too determined to believe him. 
 mulder, listen to me.  please, will you just hear me? i have never met anyone so passionate and dedicated to a belief as you. its so intense that sometimes its blinding. but there are others who are watching you, who know what i know and whereas i can respect and admire your passion, they will use it against you. mulder, the truth is out there but so are lies. mulder? are you home? 
 mul 
 i think this time youre right, mulder. id also like a one-way ticket to los angeles with a stop at las vegas, and ill be paying cash. my ears numb from being on hold for so many hours.  yep. its heading northwest on i-90. the sightings are following the path of the truck.  aliens?  weve driven full circle through mattawa twice. theres nothing here. 
 whats going on here?  this place has got to have the highest level of security.  who? 
 5-3-1-1. separator the woman on the table has a malignant tumor on her spine. this boy, here, is going to attempt to heal her by simply laying his hands on her.  it came in from the regional office in tennessee. the preacher's name is ...  you've heard of him?  did you know that he also claims the boy brought a man back from the dead?  well, not according to the kenwood country sheriff. local authorities think that reverend hartley and his son are a scam. they've been trying to shut him down for some time now, but without any luck, so they've turned to the fbi to try and get a prosecution.  no, murder. watch the tape. 
 twenty minutes later lucy kelly was rushed to the hospital. she was pronounced dead on arrival.  i don't know, but it wasn't cancer. they've requested someone with a medical background to assist local police in the investigation. i know this isn't an x-file ...   mulder, you weren't at woodstock.  maybe we should head backstage and see what the reverend has to say.   reverend hartley? we're with the fbi.  we just want to talk to samuel for a couple of minutes, that's all.  right. thank you. 
 well, there's nothing out of the ordinary about these reports, except that there were no autopsies performed.  well, maybe we can arrange to have the bodies exhumed. we don't mean you any disrespect. we're investigating a possible homicide, and federal law requires that we do a post-mortem examination on these bodies.  we can't do much here, anyway.  some might call it a plain old bar brawl.  the trouble of what?  so you're saying that you killed those people with a touch?  did he buy you all that jewelry, too? i think there's something missing in your story, samuel.  no. but i doubt the veracity of your claims.  is this some kind of a trick?   i think we should get the sheriff ...  sheriff?  how do you think he does it?  why, mulder?  a few thousand grasshoppers does not constitute a plague. besides which, we're in farm country. this area is an agricultural smorgasbord for this type of infestation.  so what's next? the slaying of the firstborn?  mulder, does this have something to do with what samuel said in the bar last night - about your sister? 
 "spontaneous remission of metastatic cancer ... regenerated nerve growth after post-trauma paraplegia ..."  mulder, i admit this is intriguing, but there's a whole library of medical literature dealing with unexplained spontaneous cures.  um-hmm.  so your theory is that if samuel can repair this energy field in order to heal, he can also destroy it in order to kill.  ok, say that samuel's touch can kill. why would he want to?  you mean sheriff daniels?  well, he seems to think that your ministry is a fraud.  in light of recent events, you can't blame him.  i think so. mulder, what do you think?  mulder. what is it?  who? jessica hahn?  apparently miracles don't come cheap.  mulder? 
 i'm a doctor.  somebody get an ambulance!   she's dead. 
 we know the reverend hartley's been pressuring you, but this is the third death linked with the miracle ministry.  what illness did your daughter suffer from, mr. hohman?  and has she ever had a siezure before this?  you see, i think that the siezure she had is indicative of some kind of embolism or aneurysm.  and are you going to be content to bury her without knowing the true cause of death? without knowing if there was foul play involved?  no.  i was raised a catholic, and i have a certain familiarity with the scripture. and god never lets the devil steal the show.   one of my favorite movies. 
 so who were you pursuing in the crowd tonight?  that boy really has you going, doesn't he?  in the bar, samuel mentioned your sister. is it your sister you keep thinking you're seeing?  maybe you just want to see her.  mulder, don't discount the power of suggestion. a healer's greatest magic lies in the patient's willingness to believe. imagine a miracle and you're halfway there. we learned that in med school.  he was alone in his cell when mulder left him this morning. how could this have happened?  reverend hartley. we're sorry for your loss.  you've got that look on your face, mulder.  the kind when you've forgotten your keys and you're trying to figure out how to get back in the house. 
 what exactly are we trying to find?  oh. 
 what does it mean? 
 well, where did they all come from?  and you think whoever did this is responsible for the murders. 
 i'm afraid not, reverend. we've traced a pesticide order to him from a chemical company in knoxville. cyanogen bromide - it's a cyanide derivative.  cyanide - there's no way to tell how much he's ingested.  it's too late, we have to get him to the hospital ourselves.   rather than simply killing samuel, vance contrived to kill the ministry's faith in him. we have conclusive evidence connecting him both to the courtroom infestation and to the poisoning deaths of three members of the ministry. vance's obsession outlived samuel, however. his conscience haunted him until he became delusory and finally took his own life, effectively ending our investigation. in light of this information, it is highly doubtful that there have ever been any miracles in kenwood, tennessee. 
 sundays will probably never be the same again in these parts.  even without his son?  yeah, and i have a story about a plague of locusts. i just hope reverend hartley didn't arrange this body snatching as his miracle of miracles.  what exactly do you think?  you coming, mulder? 
separator so we can't talk about mr. parkers federal court case against the trego indian reservation?  well, joseph goodensnake is dead with a wound from your shotgun to indicate otherwise.  the creeps?  the victim was shot there, about three meters from where parker fired. there's no way he could have mistaken a person for an animal. it's open-and-shut, mulder. you know, i'm surprised you volunteered for this assignment. any bureau agent could have investigated this reservation homicide. why are you interested? 

 well, there seems to be nothing unexplainable about this case.  mulder, this is so odd. it's almost like a snakeskin that's been shed. i suspect that the parkers knowingly killed joe goodensnake, but they hardly seem the type to skin their victim.  well, we're going to have to take a look at the body ourselves.  we're looking for any individuals who might be able to provide information on the homicide of joe goodensnake ...  sheriff tskany?  i'm agent scully and this is agent mulder.  take a look at that scar tissue.  looks like he'd been attacked by an animal as well.  no. those wounds have been healing for quite some time. the shotgun wound indicates point-blank range. the pellets entered the body in a single mass. the assailant couldn't have been more than three feet away. 
 well, could his records have been switched or misplaced?  well, there are cases of calcium phosphate salts developing abnormally with age, but ... 
 so parker saw what he wanted to see, an animal.  i'm fully qualified.  but you're a law enforcement officer. you can't destroy evidence.  mulder, since we've been here, you've acted as if you've expected to find every piece of evidence that we've come across. what aren't you telling me? why are we here?  sounds like the parker scenario.  this file indicates that they started again in 1954.  here it comes.  mulder, what this, what this folder describes is called lycanthropy.  it's a type of insanity in which an individual believes that he can turn into a wolf. i mean, no one can physically change into an animal. 
 mulder, even if you're right and joe goodensnake did somehow have the ability to transform physically into an animal, he's dead. jim parker shot him and in a couple of moments, his body will be burned. end of mystery.  gwen ...  i just wanted to say that i'm sorry about your brother. i feel sad for anyone who loses a part of their family.  gwen, i don't know what to say. i'm ...  by the way the body's been mutilated, i'd say he's been attacked by a large predator, or someone wanted it to look that way. do you think this is retaliation for the death of joe goodensnake?  have you talked to gwen goodensnake? she seemed pretty upset last night.  and what about lyle parker?  he could be dead as well. i'll take a look around. 


 mulder! mulder, i'm taking lyle to the hospital. he's suffering from exposure, and when he's been checked out, i'm gonna question him. 
 when you did go home, did you talk to your father?  your father's dead. i'm sorry.  it appears as if he's been attacked by an animal, but i suspect it may be homicide. lyle, i lost my father recently and i know how overwhelming ...  i don't know.  power's out.  you ok?  lyle? let me come in. lyle, i want to take you back to the hospital, ok?  lyle? lyle, answer me. lyle, are you all right? 



  it's ok, it's me. it's me. i don't know what happened. something jumped me downstairs and i lost my gun.   ok. 
 oh my god!  he was in the bathroom, sick, and then the next thing i knew we were attacked by the mountain lion.  maybe. separator what am i looking at?  right, but what am i looking for?  i dont know, i... i give up, mulder.  why, what happened to them? 
 ecoterrorists or militant environmentalists.  do they know why?  it appears as if these monkey wrenchers are doing more than just a little mischief-making.  for an ecoterrorism case? do i dare ask why? 
 and you suspect what? bigfoot?  must be pretty rugged where were going, huh?  "freddies?"  do you think theyd go so far as to kill a man?  get the impression that weve walked into the middle of a war thats already started? why do these men work so far up in the wilderness? youre kidding, right?  so how are we going to get up to the camp? 
 looks like they left in a hurry too. 
 somebody really turned this place upside-down.  well, you were right about one thing.  it definitely wasnt bigfoot. 
 what is it?  got it.  yeah, i think so. 
 oh god... it feels, uh... it feels dessicated and hard and dry, almost... preserved. no, more like all the fluids have been bled from this body. almost like its been cured. i think... its a male. what kind of an insect could have gotten a man all the way up into that tree? 
 when who comes?  we found something in the forest.  thats the man you said that was devoured alive?   what do you think?  who marks these trees?  you must get a lot of lumber from a big tree like this.  those center rings are the older rings, right?  thats what were trying to determine, sir.  why not? 
 can you identify them? 
 well, they appear to be hatching out of the porous wood. maybe when you drew out this core, you tapped into a larger nest.  you think these mites are what killed the men?  these bugs arent moving anymore. theyre either dead or theyre asleep.  thats weird, i mean, usually bugs are attracted to light.  uh, just what i learned in my biology courses. that theyre the foundation of our ecosystem. that theres lots of them, something like 200 million per person on this planet.  yeah, something like 600 million years, even before the dinosaurs. why?  well, like what, exactly?  yeah, but how does that explain the bugs?  oh, a brain-sucking amoeba.  but an amoeba is a single-celled organism. it can be mutated. an insect is a complex animal. it would take years and years to evolve.  its working?  what about transmissions, could we send a message?  what do you mean?  what about the gas in the trucks?  well, then weve got to get back on the radio, weve got to send out a mayday.  mulder...  fine. what do you suggest?  look, i think we both have a pretty good idea of what happened to those loggers and what happened to the group in 1934.  its a big forest.  you mean, would i have made a decision by myself that would have affected the whole group?  well, what do you want me to say? lets face it, mulder, we might die up here! if were lucky, theyll find our bodies spun up in a tree or they may not find us at all!  what are you going to do?  i can see them. you guys, look at this. look, theyre coming through the wall down where its dark. you see them?theyre on me. get them off me!  can you see them? mulder, get them off me!  i thought we were supposed to be safe in the light!  im okay. theyre oxidizing enzymes. just like fireflies. maybe thats why they cocoon their prey... so they can oxidize the proteins taken from the fluids in the body.what if the generator goes? are they all going to swarm in here and drain the life out of us? and then what? its over a days hike out of here. we wont make it on foot by nightfall.  oh, you sent that call hours ago. i mean, help would have been here by now.  and if he doesnt? separator but sir, the very nature of the x-files cases often precludes orthodox investigation.  no, sir.  no, sir. if anything, i'm suggesting that these cases be reviewed with... an open mind.  on x-files cases investigated by agent mulder and myself to date, we have a conviction or case solution of seventy-five percent. that's well above the current bureau standard.  may i ask, sir, what more you require?   i understand, however... conventional investigation of these cases may decrease the rate of success. 
 mulder, your testimony, you sounded so...  i was called into a meeting by assistant director skinner.  just wanted to reel me in.   mulder, wait...  okay, well then i'll keep surveillance with you.  that was thirty or sixty years ago.  mulder, that's going to entail unorthodox methods of investigation.  detective briggs, you've helped us so much before. now we have to prove that tooms was involved in the killings you investigated thirty years ago. you've lived with this case half your life.  there must be something. maybe a connection between the victims. now, i know that we've seen all the evidence, but is there anything, anything at all amongst the evidence that doesn't fit?  as were the four most recent murders.   that doesn't prove that it belongs to a person murdered by tooms.  and what makes you positive?  and what does your instincts say about where tooms buried the body?  ground-penetrating radar. it bounces signals off of objects or cavities.  well, it signals if something inordinate is present. an experienced operator attempts to differentiate if the signal is a body or is stone or a hole in the ground.  mm-hmmm.  well, it's an educated guess.  how are we doing?  can you determine the cause of death? my instinct says that burial in cement is murder.  well, well keep it off the record.  well, its a start.  mulder, its getting a bit ripe in here, dont you think?   ooh!   its liverwurst.  mulder, you know that proper surveillance requires two pairs of agents, one pair relieving the other after twelve hours.  this isnt about doing it by the book. this is about you not having slept for three days. mulder, youre going to get sloppy and youre going to get hurt. its inevitable at this point.  well, then ill stay here. you go home.   fox...   mulder, i wouldnt put myself on the line for anybody but you.   must be fate, mulder. root beer.  youre delirious. go home and get some sleep.   wouldnt miss it for the world. 
 sir? i was engaged in the unauthorized surveillance as well and agent mulder was orienting me on the situation at the time tooms was admitted into the hospital. agent mulder could not have done it because he was with me.  sir, i would expect you to place the same trust in me as i do in you.  these are eugene tooms dental x-rays obtained from the druid hill sanitarium. your sandwich the other night gave me an idea. dr. plith had mentioned that he found gnawing on the rib cage near the location of the liver.  further excavation revealed more pronounced bite marks, human teeth marks.  this software can create an exact three-dimensional model of tooms mouth from the dental radiograph.   where would he go?  no, i already checked on that. they tore down that apartment building he lived in.  okay, lets go.  the caterpillar?  how do you know? separator you said there was one witness, a little girl. what did she say happened?  well, it stands to reason that somebody ...  was he depressed or under psychiatric care of any kind?  you don't really think the girl had anything to do with it, do you?  do you have any idea how your daughter might have gotten there? buffalo's half an hour away by train and the station is a five minute car ride.  and mrs. dougherty is?  what seems to be the problem?  how do you mean?  frightens you how?  tell me.  your husband? where is he now?  it's beautiful.  wait a minute. we have an autopsy at 7.  why?  are you saying michelle possesses the ability to psychically project her own will?  note postmortem examination is being conducted 11 hours and 45 minutes after subject was pronounced.  note raised lesion approximately 7 centimeters below sternum. deep necrosis inconsistent with cause of death as pronounced by dr. gilder, and suggests localized electrocution ... but a further tissue analysis will be necessary. 
 i just started the autopsy.   will you, uh, take a couple for scale, please. thank you. i'll be right back. 
 looks like a match.  do you know him?  where is he now? has he been transferred?  he was killed in chinatown - gangland style, allegedly by the triads, although no arrests were ever made. now mulder, if you're gonna tell me that you think michelle bishop saw a poltergeist ...  "could have been" being the operative phrase. now, i'm not going to know for sure until the lab results are in, and even then ...  because sometimes ... 
 ... looking for extreme possibilities makes you blind to the probable explanation right in front of you. 
 this is the face that michelle bishop saw. she walked right by here and she saw the face of charlie morris ... which means that there weren't any ghosts flying around the precinct.  yeah, i have what's been declassified. why?  yes, i told you. it was a signature hit.  his arm was severed just below the shoulder, presumably by a chainsaw, and his right eye was gouged out. 
 yeah, this won't take long.  detective, we're under the direct authority of captain gershom at the 14th precinct.  did you know the detective?  sir, would you mind ...  sure.  did you notice her hands?  he said she was sleeping, but her hands were dusted with baking flour. we don't know. all we know is that your daughter has witnessed two deaths in the past two days.  is there anything that you haven't told us? is there anything at all that you can think of that might shed some light on what happened tonight?  well, this police station has a designated room at the sheraton. an officer will take you and michelle over there.  four cops.  their only connection being a drug bust in chinatown almost nine years ago.  well, for one thing fiore said he only knew barbala by reputation.  i don't know. 
 there's a page gone from morris' homicide file. wonder where it could be?  should be. yeah.  tony fiore - checked out this afternoon. 
 mrs. fiore, we're sorry for the early hour, but is your husband home?  does your husband have any family or close friends in the area that he might go to if he were in trouble?  mrs. fiore, did your husband ever mention a detective by the name of rudy barbala or an ex-police officer named leon felder?  not charlie morris, tony's ex-partner?  do me a favor, mulder. let me say it. reincarnation.  all based on the coincidence that michelle bishop and officer morris both practice the obscure art of paper folding?  so what, you think he's back like peter proud to avenge his murder?  that still doesn't explain how an eight-year-old girl can kill two grown men.  so where does that leave us?  they just left.  i know.  mrs. bishop won't go for that, not in this lifetime anyway.  how? and to what end? i mean, what exactly do you hope to discover by all this?  we'll find the truth when we find fiore.  what i saw was some traumatized little girl who for no apparent reason has some connection to charlie morris.  mulder ...  ok. let's just say that, by some small miracle, you manage to convince michelle's mother, and the next hypno-regression provides you with everything you could possible hope for. no grand jury is gonna listen to that kind of testimony. we still will not have an actionable case. 

 which means?  how is that possible?  pathologists are paranoid by nature.  great.  apparently, charlie morris did not die as a result of his wounds. says here there's a frothing of fluid in the respiratory tract. that indicates death by drowning.  um-hmm. that's right. suggesting that he was killed in either a bathtub or a toilet. except ...  the marked bradycardia. that indicates a raised plasma sodium level. he was killed in sea water. 
 mulder, what is it?  right. so?  mulder! 

separator you mean the part where the groom passed out or the dog bit the drummer?  may-be.  so is that what you couldn't talk to me about over the phone?   the icarus project?  and ronald surnow was an aeronautical scientist who worked on it here at the university.  how close are they?  ok, but how is this an x-file? mulder, you don't think this has anything to do with ufo technology?  how do you suppose he became trapped in the wind tunnel?  by computer?  another member of your team died a short time ago. isn't that correct?  are you certain it was an accident?  your work seems to be a perfect target for industrial espionage. 
 how do you know?  do you remember seeing anything unusual? seeing any strangers?  did, um, did dr. surnow or dr. keats or dr. nollette do anything unusual?  you must like stars.  sorry?  roland, let me help you.  what is it?  you don't really think that roland ...  yes, but we're talking about a sophisticated fluid dynamics equation. roland fuller barely has an iq of 70.  yes, but even savants behave only as human calculators. i mean, they can perform certain functions but they can't tell you the value of anything or even the meaning of a number.  an organic object exposed to liquid nitrogen at minus 320 degrees will become frozen, exhibiting great tensile strength, but is vulnerable to stress from compression or impact. now, i've seen this demonstrated on a fish before ...  well, i can't access the arthur file. we're gonna need the password.  how did you know that that ...  how did you know what the password was? 
[a small child stands on a porch in front of a woman who says "wave bye. wave goodbye." another child, a twin of the first, is crying as a woman puts him into the back seat of a car. the woman's voice continues to say "wave goodbye."]
 mrs. stodie, can i talk to you a second? see you later, roland. 
 has roland ever mentioned the name arthur?  mrs. stodie, can i get a copy of roland's file and past history?  i understand, but i have grounds to obtain them, and the less time we have to spend in court, the more time we have to help roland. 
 are you suggesting that arthur grable hired roland in order to use him?  and are you suggesting that arthur grable is not dead?  yeah, but by the look of this,  he's hamburger.   this obituary says that arthur grable was born in seattle. his father was a big banker, his mother was active in a number of charities. only child. summa cum laude in physics. doctoral and post-doctoral in aeronautical engineering at harvey mudd. brilliant future, tragically cut short.  does it say when he was born?   that's also arthur's birthdate. 
 is that arthur grable there, sitting on the chair? 
 was he a practical joker?  could he have faked his own death?  how can you be so certain? wouldn't your client find it somewhat inconvenient to be thawed out in the future, only to discover he had no functional mobility?  may we take a look at arthur grable's records?  thank you. dr. barrington, in your conception of future medical science, what requirements will exist to be an organ or tissue donor?  mulder? arthur grable put down only one donor. 
 no, lose the whole beard. 
 that's roland.  mulder, no one's gonna provide you with anything once you explain your theory on how roland fuller is capable of these murders.  yeah. i've got an older one and a younger one.  does this pitch somehow end with a way for me to lower my long distance charges?  ok, maybe. but in this case, one sibling has closer ties to a frozen fudgesicle than he does to his own brother.  but why? he's been working with these colleagues for years.  ok. let's go. i have to call my brother. 
 let's talk to campus security.  no, we go left. 

 arthur and roland grable, born at puget presbyterian to mr. and mrs. louis grable on july 15, 1952. arthur was four minutes older than roland. (she puts the file in front of him.) which means that they're the result of a single egg fertilized by a single sperm.  so that maybe roland's condition is the result of a damaged chromosome rejected by one of arthur's cells?  in a way. (the phone rings) (to phone) agent scully.  uh-huh.  was there any tissue damage?  (hangs up) (to mulder) someone tampered with arthur grable's capsule. they're attempting to stabilize it now.  (to mulder) wait. (to roland) roland, we need you to help us. please, we need you to help us to stop the machine. (roland is having flashbacks to the separation of the twins. a woman is saying "bye-bye, roland. arthur, say goodbye to your brother.") try to remember how. roland, you've got to help him or he's going to die. (the tunnel is at mach 4.0. nollette is barely hanging on. roland has a flashback of the car carrying him away while the woman's voice says "wave good-bye, arthur." as the tunnel reaches mach 7.0, roland goes to the keyboard but seems uncertain.) he'll be held in psychiatric custody for evaluation.  the d.a. hasn't made that determination yet.  we're not sure, mrs. stodie. all we know is that roland was somehow able to finish his brother's research. (roland is folding a shirt and putting it into a suitcase. tracy enters the room.)separator mulder, you've been through this tape a hundred times. what exactly are you hoping to find?  and all he told you to was to watch channel eight?  do we even know why the suspect was being chased?  well, that ought to put him in the ten most wanted list.  how do you know he's not just yanking your chain, this deep throat character?  well, he has lied to you by his own admission.  then what are you missing? the report says that the car was registered to a rental agency in gaithersburg. they had no idea that the car was even missing. you know, mulder, i think that we're wasting our time here. 
 what? 
 it's not the same car. 
 it's called a caduceus. it's sort of the adopted symbol of the medical profession.  mm-hmmm.  
 fast-forward.  why would they do that?  i'm sorry, i thought they were friendly.  no, but he tried to.  mulder: well, it's almost 5: 00. we should check with the doctor's housekeeper about the car while we're out here.
 no. 
 i mean, this has reached the point of absurdity, mulder. we're out here on half a hunch off of a cryptic phone call chasing down a, a clue that's based on nothing but speculation.  that's all he's given us. who is this deep throat character? i mean, we don't know anything about him. what his name is, what he does...  you don't know that this isn't just a game with him. he's toying with you. rationing out the facts.  no. i think he does it because you do. 
 the county sheriff's office is conducting the investigation. on the preliminary reports, it's being listed as a suicide.  yeah, they think that for whatever reason, he trashed his lab and then killed himself.  well, it says he tied one end of a roll of medical gauze around his neck and the other end to this gas outlet. then he jumped. nope.  i know, that gauze is troubling.  ummm... "terrence allen berube. harvard med., 1974." he was working on the human genome project. are you familiar with that?  right, but there's nothing extraordinary about that. i mean, there were thousands of scientists working on that project. 
 i'm sorry, mulder. i'm seeing the pieces but i'm not seeing the connection. 
 i don't know.  what are you going to do?  okay, mulder, but i'm warning you... if this is monkey pee, you're on your own. it was recovered at a crime scene.  no, i'm expecting it to turn out to be nothing. 
 what are they?  how do you mean?  you have no way of identifying them?  no, no, i'll wait. it's me. 
 who?  where is he now? 
 i'm at the georgetown microbiology department. i've got something for you. much. and it's not silver, it's green.  some kind of bacteria, each containing virus and it looks as if berube may have been cloning them. they also contain something that looks like chloroplasts...plant cells. but they, they've never seen anything like it here.
 well, the only reason why you clone a virus inside a bacteria... ...is in order to inject it into something living. it's called gene therapy and it's still highly experimental.
 yeah, they're just about to run some primary cell cultures and a dna sequence. now, i may be understating the strangeness of this, mulder. bacteria like this... it may have existed, but not for millions of years, not since before our ancestors first crawled out of the sea.are you there, mulder?mulder? oh, doctor carpenter. i fell asleep. 
 yeah, i think those are genes.  why is that?  what exactly did you find?  mulder? where on god's earth have you been? i've been trying to call you all night.  mulder... that bacteria i had analyzed... they're saying that it doesn't exist in nature. they're saying that it could be extraterrestrial. what?  wait a second... mulder? i, i just want to say that i was wrong. no, um... if you'd had listened to me, we wouldn't be here right now. i should know by now to trust your instincts.  you know, i've always held science as sacred. i've, i've always put my trust in the accepted facts. and what i saw last night... for the first time in my life, i don't know what to believe.  what happened to them?  were those the same men who killed doctor berube?  why?  what was he running from?  there's just one thing i don't understand. why you gave us so little to go on in the beginning and why are you giving us so much now?  i'm going to get back to georgetown and get all the lab work.  where?  excuse me? i'm looking for doctor ann carpenter. i've been unable to reach her by phone and she's not in her office.  where is he? he's been gone all night.  something's happened to him.  how do you know that?  i don't have any evidence. they took the evidence and they may have killed in order to get it.  where?  inside where?  what do they have there?  you're late.  yes.  you spoke to them?  no, sir. i'll make the exchange. 
 i don't trust you.  i don't know who you are. i know nothing about you.  so why give it back to them?  at the risk of so many other lives?  no! mulder. mulder!
