 they're here....  they're here...  they're here! they're here! so, fellas... you looking for somebody?  i don't think it's down here.  hey, you with the fcc?  i think we share the same credit union.  special agent fox mulder i'm with the ... a... federal bureau of investigation. i was hoping maybe you could help me. i'm ... m... looking for a girl. i was wondering if you've seen her. he shows them a picture of 'holly'. byers' eyes go wide. frohike, ever the smoothy, is surprised but doesn't show it. what's it to you? thanks, guys. all right? a loud cell phone rings. mulder takes this humongous old time cell phone out of his pocket and answers it. yeah, mulder... oh hey, reggie... what's up? frohike and byers walk away. federal agent. susanne modeski, you are under arrest for the murders of four people at white stone army base.  you three are under arrest also. susanne starts to move away. ma'am, stay where you are.  you three get on the ground now! ma'am, stop moving. i'm not going to ask you again. the men get on the floor. determined footsteps are coming in the building. two men walk up to them. federal agent, identify yourself.  step forward and identify yourselves, now! shots ring out, mulder dives for cover. the gunmen run behind some other boxes across the room. the inhaler carton is riddled with bullet holes. mulder lies on the ground by it. the chemical that spills out of the carton gets on mulder, who starts moaning and wreathing around on the floor. he takes his shirt off. the man walks up to mulder and is about to shoot him. susanne shoots the guy first. mulder is in a daze. lone gunmen come out from behind the boxes. they're here. the man shot by susanne is put into a body bag. yeah i am, thank you, i just ... mmm ... i have these weird ideas in my head that i can't seem to shake.  weird ones.  i'm not sure yet, i just spoke with my asac and he tells me that dr. susanne modeski is no longer wanted by the fbi. she's still missing, but the case has suddenly closed. what i need from you guys is to tell me what the hell happened last night.  yeah, i want the truth.  what?! separator keep going, fbi woman.  it was too crowded in my apartment, i couldn't sleep.  good, cuz neither am i. there's a dead man on the floor of my apartment, and it's only a matter of time before he starts to stink the place up.  apparently somebody thinks my life is interesting enough to put on video tape. my apartment's been under an electronic surveillance for at least 2 months. look at this, courtesy of the us government.   yeah, he works ... he worked for the department of defense.  gunshot wound to the face.  i can't do that, scully, i can't go to the authorities with this.  this man, ostelhoff, worked for the military. are you beginning to get the picture? do you see what's happening here?  this hoax, your cancer, everything! it just doesn't lead back to the military, it leads right back to the fbi!  this man, ostelhoff, was set up in the apartment directly above mine. i caught him trying to destroy phone records on which the same number was called 17 times.   yeah.  i don't know.  maybe since the beginning, since you joined me on the x-files.  there are those who can be trusted. what i need to know is who among them is not. i will not allow this treason to prosper, not if they've done this to you.  no, but as they lie to us, we can lie to them. a lie to find the truth. through the front door.  you knew my apartment was being surveilled. how?   someone at the fbi is involved, this man ostelhoff, was in contact with somebody ...  i found it on a dead man.  level 4 clearance, that means i get to dine at the officer's club?  i need to know who did this to scully!  what?  the cure for scully's cancer? 
 what am i looking for?  dna from whom?  but what does all this have to do with flying saucers?  germ warfare. we were accused of using it in the korea.  what about all the reports of abductions? you're saying they've all been lies?  but i've seen aliens. i've witnessed these things.  then why a hoax? why create hard evidence, an alien body that could be disproved?  scully would have known.  you went along with all this. you let them do this to scully.  you believe there's a cure for him in here, too.  i had come here looking for answers hoping not only to lay bare this conspiracy against the country and the men behind it but to finally learn the truth about the possibility of intelligent extraterrestrial life.  now with what i've heard my beliefs seem more and more improbable. the possibility of a cure for scully somewhere inside these walls is my only hope but if i might find it and somehow save her the very existence of such a cure would mean with certainty that i had believed in a lie from the start.  
 if agent scully and i had been led to believe that the conspiracy meant to destroy us has its roots in the department of defense, that fact seems all but irrefutable now. i have gained access to a large storage facility by a hallway connecting underground to the pentagon. on hundreds of rows of shelves are materials that reveal nothing to me of a cure for scully's cancer. and now, as i have reached the terminus of this space, what appears to be an old and antiquated filing system seems my only hope of finding what this man kritschgau has assured me exists.  if his own desperate hope for his son's cure has eluded him, i now share his desperation. that among these drawers is a sign, a glimmer, some small confirmation that the journey which has brought me here has not been in vain. 
 what? what is it? separator can you help me? i'm looking for a woman...  excuse me, i'm looking for a dana scully who was brought into ...  excuse me, i'm looking for a patient, dana scully...  is there an admitting nurse here?  look! can someone help me here? 
 i will calm down when someone gives me a reason to calm down. now i'm looking for a patient who was admitted to the er!  yes.  well, where is she?  where is that?  where is she?  icu.  i'm only half dead.  what happened to her?  due to what?  do to what?!  let go of me.   get the hell off of me!   are you suggesting that i can?  help myself, how?  that helps you, how doesn't that help me?  are we finished then? thanks, buddy.  you should have mentioned that at the hospital when you were hauling my ass off!  that's a good place to lay it, considering her condition.  how can you help me?  the disease she has was given to her by somebody connected to the fbi, to a mole working here.  i failed to find that out, sir.  i heard you were being moved out of the icu, that you were feeling better.  it's okay.  i'm officially among the undead.  i did not come here to talk about that.  well, there's not much to talk about anyway, i'm going to testify to everything i know in front of the fbi assembly. the conspiracy, the men behind it, what i believe is its purpose.  no. but that doesn't matter now.  hey, scully, how about those yankees, huh?  yeah, skinner's withholding it.  i don't believe that.  no, not skinner.  but if i don't testify now they'll start to bury the truth.  i can....  i can't do that.  hi, mrs. scully.  no. i was just on my way out.  hi, i'm fox mulder, i don't think we've ever met.  i'm sorry about your sister.  yeah?  please tell me you're here with severe chest pains.  go to hell.  what are you talking about?  what i found was useless.  he promised me it would be in here. 
 it may be for scully's.  shortly after she was abducted she discovered a small metallic chip implanted subcutaneously in your neck... it was a short time after she had it removed that she developed cancer.  watch your language, frohike, and grab me some tweezers. crazy in what sense? in that it might save your sister's life?  this is not science fiction.  would she have to stop her conventional treatment?  i'll keep that in mind. 
 i think that's my sister.  samantha?  who? who told you that?  why?  but you called that man your father?  but you knew who your father was?  and you believed that.  you don't remember anything about that night?  i can help you. you were abducted, samantha, i can help you to remember.  then why come here at all?  what you've been told ... i want you to listen to me, okay? what you've been told by that man may not be true.  because the man that brought you here has known where i've been for a very long time.  i don't know, but i think he's kept a lot of things from you.  then i want you to come with me, come with me to see mom.  yes. and i know she'd like to see you very much.  why not?  no, please, don't go.  alright, just tell me how i can find you.  just ... just tell me where to find you.  we will do this on your time, just...  what do you want from me?  you give me these things, the only things i ever wanted and i can't think of any reason for you to do so.  i know the truth.  i spoke to one of your men.  i've seen enough to know he's not a liar, yeah.  what more can you show me?  what are you saying?  in exchange for what?  no deal.  what have ... what have you given me? a claim of a cure for scully, is she cured? you show me my sister only to take her right back. you've given me nothing!  you murdered my father, you killed scully's sister, and if scully dies, i will kill you. i don't care whose father you are, i will put you down.  where did you get that?  why am i here?  the man was spying on me.  i refuse to believe that.  can you show it to me?  name skinner and save myself?  i'll see you at the hearing. 
 good morning.  yeah. i came by last night, but i... i didn't have the heart to wake you.  i was lost last night. but as i stood here, i thought i'd found my way. i've been ... ah .. i've been offered a deal, a deal that could save my life in a way. and though i'd refused the deal earlier, i left here last night with my mind made up to take it.  it doesn't matter, i'm not taking the deal, i'm not taking any deal. not after what happened this morning.  section chief blevins directed me to implicate skinner. to name him as the man inside in the fbi. who may have deceived us both. and if i name him, they'll protect me.  no.  yeah, they have evidence against me, they know i killed that man.  scully, i can't let you take the blame. because of your brother, because of your mother, and because i couldn't live with it. to live the lie, you have to believe it. like these men who deceive us, who gave you this disease. we all have our faith, and mine is in the truth.   because i knew you'd talk me out of it if i was making a mistake.   have the father say a few hail mulders for me, okay? 
 sorry i'm late.   respectfully, sir. i've come here today to set the record straight so that this process you've begun came be completed and the guilty parties can be named.   i'm... ready to proceed please sir.   four years ago, while working on an assignment outside the fbi mainstream, i was paired with special agent dana scully, who i believed was sent to spy on me. to debunk my investigations into the paranormal. that agent scully did not follow these orders is a testament to her integrity as an investigator, a scientist, and a human being. she has paid dearly for this integrity.  she did lied because i asked her to. because i had evidence of a conspiracy. a conspiracy against the american people.  and a conspiracy intended to destroy the lives of those who would reveal it's true purpose. to conduct experiments on unwitting victims to further their secret agenda for someone further into the government operating at levels without restraint or responsibility.  without morals or conscience... men who pretend to honor as they deceive.. the price of this betrayal, the lives and reputations of those deceived. agent scully... is now in a hospital bed [father mccue holds a rosary]right now diagnosed with terminal cancer. the victim of these same tests. conducted without her knowledge or consent. by these same men who are trying to cover their tracks who suborn and persecute the same people they've used in their plot i will now call by name! i will answer sir. i will answer that question, sir.  i will answer the question after i name the man!  i will answer that question after i name the man who's responsible for agent scully! the same man who directed that my apartment be surveilled by the dod. a man i want to see prosecuted for his crimes! who's sitting in this very room as i speak!  i can't do that.  i can't do that sir, because the section chief is the man i'm about to name! 
 how?  assuming?  i didn't. i just guessed.  i'm sure whatever connections there were, they're being erased right now.  not everything.  scully's cancer's gone into remission.  it's the best news i could have ever heard.  i don't know. i don't think we'll ever know.  yeah, she's in there with her family right now, but i'm sure she'd love to see you. 
separator  kill me now. 
  im having that same problem right now. 
 no, you know unfortunately around this time of year i always develop a severe hemorrhoidal condition.    thank you, jesus.  no, im sorry, im not. im just stretching my legs.  just slow down. i - i dont know what youre talking about.  ill try to find out whos in charge, all right?  my name is fox mulder. im an agent with the fbi.   nobody. we just got stopped at your roadblock. it sounds like you had a shooting.  well, what do you have evidence of?  separated by what?  what kind of animal?  couldnt identify as the surveyors? 
 oh, just, uh ...  hold on a second.   what about the boys father?  but no other sign of him? do you have panther in these woods?  but these tracks look like neither of those.  you know of a good motel in the area?  yeah. how do i say this without using any negative words, scully?  yeah, you see that?  we dont need that conference. we have communication like that, unspoken. you know what im thinking. 
 its open.  who cut the cheese?  partaaayyy!  try any of that tailhook crap on me, scully, ill kick your ass. pop quiz. what animal will attack the strongest leaving the weakest to escape? the answer is none. not one of the over 4,000 species native to north america will attack the strongest when the weak is vulnerable.  it makes me think that what were dealing with here is no ordinary predator.  i think what we stumbled upon here is something more that what local authorities realize. the scenario described by that boy sound to me like a primitive culling technique.  those woods are as old as anything in the south and theres 800 square miles of them. theres no telling whats alive out there.   i got to check something out.  ill be back soon, and we can build a tower of furniture.  kay? 
 what is it, louis?  thats pretty sophisticated for government issue.   i dont think its a drifter, scully, and we may be looking for two individuals.  well, that thing lured that woman out of the house last night to separate her from her son.  divide and conquer. if your enemy has greater numbers than you, you divide and conquer it to diminish those numbers.  encroaching development. thats what i suspected when i went to check on louis and his mother.  that survey team was staking out a new 100,000 acre plot. civilization is pushing very hard into these woods. maybe something in these woods is pushing back. 
 where is it?  i dont see it.  scully!!   scully!  what happened?  they separated us. that was on purpose. they divided us so they could go after her. she was in the lead and presumably the strongest. they take the strongest first.  youre right. we got to find her.  i dont know! well form a line and beat the bushes. maybe youll pick up a signal.  the longer we wait, the less chance we have of finding her.  okay. youre right. you go back. you leave me the flir and you go back.  we have to find her.   all right. we all go then.  you lead the way. 
 so far all its done is split us up.  what does that tell you?  mm hmm.  maybe it can regulate its temperature. do you know of any animal that can?  thats interesting.  30 years ago, the, uh, the town of point pleasant, west virginia was terrorized for over a year by something killing livestock and terrorizing the people. witnesses described them as primitive looking men with red piercing eyes. became known as the "moth men." ive got an x-file dating back to 1952 on it.  no, "the cockroach that ate cincinnati" is in the cs. "moth mens" over in the ms.  this is the same path. this is the way we came.  thats because youve had your nose glued to that screen the whole time.  where?  jeff?  where?  where?  scully, i lost it.  did you hit it?  wheres glaser? 

 how many shots did you fire?  is that your only clip?  dont fire again unless youre sure youre gonna hit it. it may be trying to spend our advantage.  i dont know. but what ever it is, its smarter than us at least out here. 
  scully! scully!  scully! 
 indian guide says maybe you should run to the store and get some matches.  what are you doing.  oh. and maybe itll start raining weenies and marshmallows.  no. yes ... actually. yeah.  i was told once that the best way to regenerate body heat was to crawl naked into a sleeping bag with some body else whos already naked.   yeah, once, when i was at the ice capades.  i think nature is supremely indifferent to whether we live or die. i mean, if youre lucky you get 75 years. if youre really lucky you get 80 years. and if youre extraordinarily lucky, you get to have 50 of those years with a decent head of hair.  go, girl. 
 hey, who did you identify with when you were a kid? wilma or betty?  yes! i did, too.  but where are they today? 
  yeah. but there seem to be only two of them. 
 i dont wanna wrestle.  one of us has got to stay awake, scully.  if you get tired, you wake me.  why dont you sing .. something.  well, if you sing something, ill know youre awake.  it doesnt matter. just sing anything. 
 chorus.  scully?!  what are you doing?  i wouldnt go far.  scully?  scully? scully! scully!?  where?  you all right?  whats down there?  scully, whats going on? are you okay?  is she alive?  is there a way out?  yeah?  hold on, im going to drop my gun down. 

  dont mind me. 
  scully! 
 too bad we dont have any office furniture.  go, team. 20 more bodies and well win the honey-baked ham. (scully gives him a look.) were down here!  weve got injured people down here.  no, on the contrary, agent kinsley, we would never have gotten involved in this if not for you.   yeah, you see this?  there was something in the cave that scully fell into ; an inscription - ad noctum.  it means "into darkness". the spanish conquistadors used to carve it on the posts that they would lash the natives to as a warning.  ponce de leon came here 450 years ago looking for the fountain of youth.  after 400 years in the woods dont you think they might have adapted perfectly to their environment?  why do you say that?  i wouldnt be surprised if they couldnt find either one of them.  these predators have been in these woods for a long, long time. they would have perceived any encroachment on their territory as an enemy, even a little kid like that.   wheres agent scully?  she did? excuse me.   scully!? scully!!!?? 
  lets get out of here.  you pack everything? separator hello?  hello?  hello? 
separator scully, do you think its too soon to get my own 1-900 number? 
 no. it had something called hypertrechosis lanuginosa. its a rare hereditary condition most commonly found in some south american families.  mrs. berkowitz had a tubal ligation two years ago.   mmm.  why do you say that? 
 well, i dont think this has anything to do with alien abductions. i dont even know if i believe in that stuff anymore.   the great mutato  you think baloney would be more effective?  im not humoring them, scully. this is a very serious crime.  for the purpose of what? 
 i am alarmed that you would reduce these people to a cultural stereotype. not everybodys dream is to get on jerry springer. scully: psychologists often speak of the denial of an unthinkable evil or a misplacement of shared fears.  anxieties taking the form of a hideous monster for whom the most horrific human attributes can be ascribed. what we cant possibly imagine ourselves capable of we can blame on the ogre, on the hunchback, on the lowly half-breed. 

 but nonetheless, unverifiable, and therefore true in the sense that theyre believed to be true.  shh. 
 i dont know. i lost it. 
 there. up there. 
 were with the fbi.  your father.  what is the homeotic hox gene?   this fly has legs  why would you do that?  could that be done in humans?  but could it be done?   good night, dr. frankenstein.  thats not what i just heard.  well, then why do them at all?  but, given the power, who could resist the temptation to create life in his own image?  do you own a tape recorder, izzy?  thats the same voice we heard out in the woods last night.  (holding tape) to messenger this to the bureau. i want special audio to filter the tracks and then i want to go back to see the professor.  something recorded its voice on this, scully.  when victor frankenstein asks himself "whence did the principle of life proceed?" and then as a gratifying summit to his toils creates a hideous phantasm of a man he prefigures the postmodern prometheus. the genetic engineer whose power to reanimate matter genes into life us is only as limited as his imagination is.  who else would go to such trouble to impregnate shaineh berkowitz? (mulder goes to start car, scully thinks for a moment, watches a neighbor watching her, then goes to the car. mrs. berkowitz said in her letter that when she saw her intruder there was a gaseous white cloud and then when she woke up three days later, nobody knew that shed been gone.  dr. pollidori. is there something youd like to tell us?  im accusing that your wife may have been impregnated. 
 oh, i think you know.    scully?  the other victims, they had their frying pans violated.  do you know what that is?    i think we found our smoking gun. 
 we may be too late. i think we are.  whos that? show yourself! 
 who are you?  whats your business here?  its alive.  whatever you have in mind, im going to have to ask you to stop right there.  hey, scully. look at this. 
 youre going to have to come out of there.  i hope not.  were going to have to get him out of here, scully. theyre going to kill him.  created by whom?  quiet.   this is all wrong, scully. this is not how the story is supposed to end.  dr. frankenstein pays for his evil ambitions, yes. but the monsters supposed to escape to go search for his bride.  well, wheres the writer?  i want to speak to the writer.separator excuse me, i'm looking for the special needs ward.   thanks. 
 what are you coloring?  have you ever seen mr. potato head? he looks like this.  doesn't it?   i found emily's surrogate mother. i had frohike hack into the california social services adoption database.  yeah, her mother of record is one anna fugazzi.  yeah, as in slang term for fake.  because there are no true records. emily didn't come into this world through any system that keeps them.  have you asked yourself that?  someone, who's proven that they'll do anything to protect her or their interest in her.  yeah, but who's going to protect you? emily's adoptive parents are both dead, by no accident.  why didn't you call me sooner?  and i should have declined... if i never want to see you hurt or harmed in any way.  because i know something that i haven't said... something that they'll use against you to jeopardize your custody of emily. no matter how much you love this little girl, she's a miracle that was never meant to be, scully. she was missing for 4 weeks, that's documented in the file.  yes, all of them.   i believe it can, and was. that emily sim was conceived as a result of those experiments.  i don't know how else to explain it. a medical exam of ms. scully would show that she hasn't given birth.  i included this information in anticipation of your reaction and how it might look if you received this information without any explanation.  no, but the fact remains, ms. scully is the mother of this child.  well, if you can show me a legal precedent for this case, i'd like to see it. dana has known for quite some time that she can't bear children. she doesn't know why, but however that happened, that fact that she can adopt this child, her own flesh and blood, is something i don't feel i have the right to question and i don't believe anyone has the right to stand in the way of. when's she due?  i never expected this. i thought i was protecting you.  i only know that genetic experiments were being done, that children were being created.  for who? for what? i don't know.    i need to trace a call. i have an incoming call to residential line 555-0380.   don't hang up.  okay, thanks. i got a trace. county children's center. anyone been here the last half hour?  scully? there's something on her neck.   all right, i'll try back later.  i spoke to the social worker. she hasn't been able to reach emily's doctor.   do you know what that is?  wait! stop!  move away from her! get away from her! 
 she still sleeping?  the er doctor is in and out of consciousness.  if emily was someone's creation, then it occurred to me that she might share the same body chemistry that we've seen before. so i had them put the er doctor in a cooling bath like you did when i was exposed to this.  she was also being treated.   yeah, but it's not beyond dr. calderon. what can i say to convince you?  so, i'm wasting your time. this isn't worth the life of a three year old girl.  okay then.  how do you feel now?  why don't you tell me what your company's really in the business of. huh? abducting women and stealing their unborn children? medical rapists! that's all you are! you don't care if that little girl dies! she's just a lab rat to you!  tell me, whose life is worth saving, yours or hers? i want everything to help that little girl!  i'll be back. yeah.  i'm following dr. calderon.  is she all right?  whatever he injected her with i don't think he meant to harm her.  i think dr. calderon went there to treat her.  as a bluff. i don't think they want her dead either, scully, but for different reasons. look, i'm going to catch up with you, all right?   anna fugazzi?  your name is anna fugazzi?  no, i'm not. is that your real name?  not until now. evelyn burmeister.   that makes 8 for 8.  no i'm at the maternity ward.  i think you might have a shot here frohike. do you know anything about pharmaceuticals?  there's two prescriptions on their med charts that all these women have in common. abbreviated pmz 200 and duratab.  hormones.  you would these. anna? there's a doctor that comes to visit you. a dr. calderon.  no, actually, i'm looking for him.  your beauty sleep. what is that?  who are you?  detective kresge, i'm agent fox mulder with the fbi. (a door opens. they both look. calderon walks into the hallway.) take the gun off me and put it on that man. (calderon walks toward them. kresge points the gun at calderon who walks toward them)  run. get out of here. (mulder is ready to go, but waits for kresge, who drops the vials to put both hands on the gun. the vials drop to the floor and scatter.) don't use your gun. get out of here!  kresge...  don't fire, kresge! (he does. the bullets go right through calderon. green oozes out of the holes. mulder runs down the hallway. calderon never falls. he turns around and faces kresge. (kresge's eyes start to water. he tries to hold the gun on him. he drops the gun, gasps and grabs his eyes) i'm an fbi agent. i have an emergency situation. i need an ambulance and i need backup. i don't know where i am.   you have your weapon.  i have back up coming. i need a location though.  detective kresge is going to radio in the location. 
 but if you could treat her...  are you sure?  i think she was born to... serve an agenda.  all right. i'll stay with you.  i don't know. but the fact that you found her... and had a chance to love her... then maybe she was meant for that too.  so you could save her.  he's doing better. he's already out of the icu.  they've already cleaned up the nursing home. all the women have been placed in new homes. there's no evidence that anyone at transgen corporation knew of calderon's work.  separator the subject's name is robert patrick modell. he's a serial killer responsible for at least 17 murders. specifically, he targets law enforcement. in 1996, he caused the deaths of an fbi agent and a loudoun county sheriff's deputy. it was all a game to him. he was looking for, in his words, "a worthy adversary".  we fully expect him to pick up exactly where he left off.  modell refers to himself as "pusher". technically speaking, all of his victims' wounds were self-inflicted. this man has a unique ability to force his will upon others - to push his victims into hurting or killing themselves.  ok, look, this is all you need to know. do not trust this man, do not talk to him, do not engage him in conversation, even if he is unarmed. approach him only with extraordinary caution, and then only with adequate backup.  adequate backup? every cop you can lay your hands on.  what's modell's condition?  oh yeah?  how did he recover?  what about his brain tumor that was supposed to be killing him?  is there anybody on staff here we can talk to?  as opposed to what? what's your point?  who?  did modell ever get any other visitors besides the little sisters of charity?  sounds like you got to know him pretty well.  about what?  he's a very considerate man.   yeah.  i don't feel like playing your game right now, modell.  tell it to me in person, modell.  no, you listen to me. either you come back here on your own or i drag your sorry ass back on the bumper of my car.  outside! 
  i'm going to take a wild stab here and guess this is a clue. 
 that's a little on the nose, don't you think? 
 was nathan bowman married?  linda. bet that's his wife, huh? 
  hi, linda?  do you know the name of the client that mrs. bowman went to see?  do you know where mrs. bowman went to meet fox mulder, a location?  yeah. 
 linda bowman? fox mulder. linda bowman: hi. uh, you're my 12:15?
 why didn't modell just kill those two cops? what was to stop him?  as in too tired?  maybe. i don't know. something's just not making sense.  can i borrow your radio?   scully, i got him. come quick.   north side of channel, second floor. some kind of company, some engineering company.  shut up, modell.  i said shut up.  shut up or i will shoot you, you son of a bitch.  i will shoot you, shut up.  i will shoot you.  he had to go. well, aside from the utter grinding humiliation that comes from knowing i let our suspect go, pretty good.  no, actually it couldn't have. i didn't find modell. he sought me out. he wanted me to hear his message.  "don't play the game."  i don't think so. i'm not even sure he's playing a game.  then why didn't he kill the cops? or the prison guards? or, hell, while we're at it, why didn't he kill me? why didn't he make me eat a bullet out of my own gun? he could have.  yeah, he was definitely there, but that doesn't prove that he did it.  it's not like that.  modell is involved. he's related to it somehow, but not the way you think.  yeah, that's my opinion.  what do we still agree on here? that modell was pursuing linda bowman? i'd like to know why. we appreciate your help.  yes.  how long did you know him?  no, you don't.  he was true blue.  thank you. 
 she killed nathan bowman.  modell was there but for some other reason. she killed her husband.  wait a minute, just hear me out. her husband's brush with greatness, she doesn't want to paint him as being impulsive. who the hell talks like that?  she was waving it under our nose, she was playing with us. modell told me, he warned me not to play the game. i think it was her game he was talking about.  has she asked how her husband was murdered? has she shown any interest in the details? an escaped serial killer is supposedly stalking her. does she seem particularly fearful to you?  you heard it in there, scully.  but what if she can do what modell does?  you think i should go home?  who are you afraid i'm gonna point it at?  i'll prove it. 
  go fetch her some water! no, just anything at all that you might recall. did he ever talk about his past? you know, mention anybody special, a woman, something like that.  anything remarkable he ever said that you can remember.  yeah? what was that?  was this the same nun that visited him the day before he escaped?  how many times did she visit him?  would you take a look at something for me? is that the woman, is that the nun? 
 here ... glasses.  where did you leave them? 
 no! 
 i need help in here! 
 help!  hey, scully, it's me.  i'm at the prison.  it's a little late for that now. modell's therapist just electrocuted herself right in front of me, and she was on the phone when she did it.  it was linda bowman.  the therapist would have identified her and verified that she visited modell in the prison.  listen, scully, just trace the call and cut off any access that woman has to a phone. i'm heading back there right now.  you're not?  why isn't anybody picking up at the safe house switchboard?  what happened?  what happened?  he pointed a gun at you?  he said to you that he had a gun.  modell was unarmed. he purposely drew skinner's fire.  to protect someone.  to take the fall for her.  where is she?  no, it's not.  if modell makes it through surgery, i want to be the first person that he talks to.   ok, look, you do me a favor, scully. you give me a call when you think i've come to my senses, all right? scully, what are you doing here?  scully.  where is she?   linda bowman!   show yourself!   no! no! 
  i'm gonna kill you!  what?  what the hell are you talking about?  you killed her!   shut up!  shut up!  shut up!  i think that covers it. 
 how's that?  i almost killed my partner.  then how come i feel like i lost? 
separator all that came out of his stomach?  is it possible that he took the term "mud pie" literally?  is that what youve concluded?  well, according to the same report the coroner had to hire a backhoe to remove the body, which was buried completely in a standing vertical position.  that was some rainstorm.  now that sounds like an exaggeration, dont you think?  how a 64" 250-pound man was buried alive in less than five minutes by a 16-year-old kid whose classmates lovingly refer to as "dork-weed?"   "ich bin ein auslander." "i am an outsider." you know, when kennedy told the germans "ich bin ein berliner" he was actually saying "i am a cocktail sausage."   im not im not here to accuse you of anything, bobby.  i want to hear your story.  well, the police arent entirely convinced that thats the truth.  right. but you see, youre not making it very easy for them to believe otherwise. you understand that?  did he ever hurt you?  did you ever shove him back?  thats why some people thought you might have dug the hole. or attacked him when he fell in the hole because he was down there.  you remember what was going through your head at the time?  so he pounds the kid. and the kid pounds back. is that what she told you?  kid says his stepfather teed off on him regularly.  no, thats his explanation. he says hes innocent.  i think hes a hard kid to love. 
 im still finding it hard to reconcile the facts with the physical evidence.  well, then how did the victim swallow 12 pounds of this stuff?  did you ask if anybody else might be involved?  that could be me. 
 what is it?  who was it?  karin matthews?  physical violence?  was his stepfather ever involved?  so youre saying bobby would have good reason to kill his father.  youre free not to answer, miss matthews or youre free to make these vague allusions but your evasiveness is only going to land this kid in jail for a long, long time.  you make it sound like a justification. like bobby did it. and i dont think he did. did you get a look at the body?  pushed out? scully: his daughter lisa made the 911 call at 8:08 p.m. she says she and her father had a fight. about what?  was lisa another of you clients?  yeah.  what were you treating her for?  have you asked her what happened?  we gather that she had a fight with her father over bobby rich.  had you counseled her father?  in what ways?  seems to be working.  does she think bobby did it?  i think were all quite capable.  come here.  take a look at this. if lisas father was pushed out, then all the glass would be outside. look. theres glass here on the inside. the paint on the mullions is cracked on the outside, not on the inside here.  well, seems to me like some facts have been assumed. it looks to me like lisas father was pulled out the window, not pushed.  that i dont know.  thats my point exactly. yeah, but there was a substantial amount of blood loss, wasnt there?  have you determined if the neck injury was caused by the fall?  have you seen this? what do you make of this here?  scully?   evidence.   no. i think hes scared enough as it is.  that splinter youre holding came from mr. baiocchis neck but it didnt come from the broken window.  its greenwood, fresh from a living tree.  excuse me. its been a few years. 
 kind of begs the question, doesnt it?  hey, scully, is this demonstration of boyish agility turning you on at all? 
  scully.   scully  what causes this?  ms. matthews, wed like to ask you a few questions.  your fathers death. we need to clarify a few details.  yeah, under rather curious circumstances. his body was pulled from the mud of an orchard?  well, we thought it was strange that you didnt bother to mention it.  we spoke to someone who thinks it does. someone who worked for you father? according to the orchard man, your fathers death brought about the end of a blight affecting the trees.  im not expecting it to be. 
 i dont think this was an act of grave robbing, scully.   more like an act of nature.  the orchard man said that the blight that plagues this town was caused by a man implying a connection.  who couldnt defend themselves.  something did it for them or someone controlling nature. karin said she was counseling bobby and lisa to empower them. i think we should talk to them.  then we should talk to bobby.  maybe we havent asked him the right question. 
 karin? 
 scully. take a look at this. 
 talk about putting down roots.  i think were looking at karin matthews father.  the same way bobbys father got pulled down into that mud.  this has to do with karin, with her own fathers abuse. it was never bobby that was locked in the cellar. karin was. karin caused all this.  i think shes the killer and the victim. 
 lisa wheres karin. 
 you stay with her, scully. 
 karin! stop!  stand up to him!   make him stop, karin! tell him what you should have told him 20 years ago. youre not going to take it anymore.  coats grove authorities conducted a detailed examination of the soil and root composition in the rich family orchard, but could not explain what pulled karin matthews body into the michigan mud. nor could the authorities determine how the body of karins father was pulled from its grave into her root cellar three years earlier. while the forensic data is inconclusive, i believe the explanation lies in hospital records dating back to karins childhood, which suggests that she, herself was a victim of abuse. rage, unconfronted, takes its own path. i believe it was karins unconfronted rage that forced her to face her buried father. this same rage made her imagine victims in the children around her, trying to instill in them a strength she never found in herself. what happened to karin matthews in the orchard that night was a release. release for a victim, who, unable to face up to her own past was finally consumed by it. mulder:  abuse exists, as does the blindness that accompanies it. the pleading cries in the night followed by the disturbing denial of culpability: "if something bad happened, i didnt see it." as witness to a horrific event, i am forced to question the frequently blurred line between right and wrong to weigh the guilt of one mans act against anothers to decide if justice was served or if a grievous injustice has prevailed. and if pressed on the subject of what happened that last night in the orchard, i will speak as truthfully as i can: if something bad happened, i didnt see it.separator  hey, scully, its me.   right, right. i know. but i - i just received some information about - about a case. a classic x-files --- classic. i wanted to share it with you.   you didnt rent a convertible, did you?   are you aware of the statistics of decapitation?   you shouldnt talk and drive at the same time. are you aware of the statistics .? hello? 
  mulder.   i thought you said you were on vacation.   i thought you said you didnt want to be disturbed. you wanted to get out of your head for a few days.   its the worlds deadliest swarms.  um .. you said you were going to be unreachable. whats going on?   a handle on what? 
  towards who? 
  themselves?   dead? how?   huh it sounds to me like thats witchcraft or maybe some sorcery that youre looking for there. 
  maybe you dont know what youre looking for.   scully   marry me.   well, you know, short of looking for a lady wearing a pointy hat riding a broomstick, i think you pretty much got it covered there.   hey, morning, sunshine. 
  yeah. i was a little worried about you. i was wondering if you needed my help up there.   i left you a message at the motel. you didnt get it?   yeah?   im at home. theyre doing construction right out the window. hold on a second.  hey fellas! can you just keep it down for a second, maybe?  thank you.  yeah, hey. i was - i was thinking about this case. you know, maybe its not witchcraft after all. maybe theres a scientific explanation. scully:  a scientific explanation? mulder:  yeah, a medical cause. something called chorea.  yeah, st. vituss dance. 
  it affect groups of people causing unexplained outbursts of uncontrollable jerks and spasms. 
  oh.  youre obviously not a fan of american bandstand, scully.   yeah?   hello?   hey. i thought you werent answering your cell phone. 
  i, uh, i had a new thought about this case youre on. theres a viral infection thats spread by simple touch   what types of objects?   you mean like chuckie?   yeah, the talking doll myth is well established in literature, especially in new england. the-the fetish or juju is believed to pass on magical powers onto its possessor. some of the early witches were condemned for little more that proclaiming that these objects existed. the supposed witch having premonitory visions and things . why do you ask?   you didnt find a talking doll, did you, scully?   i would suggest that you check the back of the doll for a - a plastic ring with a string on it. 
  that would be my first . hello?  oh, hey, scully. how you doing?  how are you feeling? rested?  what?  oh, i got it down on "m" street at some head shop about five years ago.  why?  you do?  who? 
 who?  yeah. hey, does this have something to do with that case you were working on?  did you solve it?  oh, god. its amazing what i can accomplish without incessant meddling or questioning into everything i do. its just 
  theres got to be an explanation. separator charles figgis, ten year veteran of the us marshalls service. multiple gunshot wounds, high speed teflon rounds. his partner, gerald boyce was doa at mercy general. tried to catch a nine millimeter slug in his teeth.  figgis and boyce had radioed in that they were coming here to apprehend pico salazar.  the colombian cartels banking liaison. salazar escaped from federal custody three months ago. boyce and figgis were on the offender transport squad that lost him.  they took his escape personally. a phone tip told them that salazar was going to be here tonight.  i dont think he is ... or was. but there were a lot of very photogenic gentlemen that were. 
 yeah, not the type youd expect to associate with a cartel boss.  maybe it was for the pie. scully:  it s 2: 45 in the morning. you mind telling me what it is were supposed to be looking for?  donald gelman.  donald gelman --- silicon valley software pioneer. hes been missing since 1979.  he invented the internet.  well, he didnt quite invent it, but hes a silicon valley folk hero. he was writing internet software even before there was an internet.  on the eve of the deal that was going to set him up as another bill gates he went hiking in the sierras and said hed think about it. never came back.   maybe thats the point. 
 i think somebody obviously wanted him dead.  eight unconnected dealers all at the same place at the same time, all tipped off by phone looking for somebody, last call goes to the marshalls, they arrive, place explodes, gelman dies in the crossfire. its genius.  well, when youre talking about donald gelman you want to kill the brain, not the body. 
 gee, i hope so. 
 dont let their looks fool you.   you dont want to take a vote. 
  what is this?  oh, all right. but if you load the kill switch, whats to stop it from playing another funny joke on us? esther: well, obviously we cant inject kill switch over the net. theres only one way now: we have to find its home node and physically feed it the poisoned apple. physically?  did he find it?   scully? 
  yeah, ive found something down in fairfax county. a derelict chicken farm with a t3 connection, paid for by aleph industries, palo alto, of which theres no other record anywhere.   where are you? sounds like youre driving.   you have esther with you?   where are you going?   where? mulder  scully? scully?
  david markham. 
  whats going on?  whats that smell?  oh, jeez ...  is it bad?  my arms hurt. 
 no, wait ....  call my doctor. you have to call ... my doctor. call dr. scully. please call dr. scully. 
 call her.  no, no. no ... what are you doing?  no. no. 
 no-no-no-no! ahhhhh! 
 i feel sick.  i remember ... wires, and uh ...  what do you mean? 
 oh, my god. what did you do with my arm? what did they do with my arm?   theyll come back for what?   what do they want?!  this is crazy! you have to help me. you have to get me out of here ... please!  help me. help me. please, help me. 
 oh, i had this terrible dream.  and then i had a good dream.  tell them what?  nobody asked me anything.  no.  i ...  scully! 
 i didnt tell them anything!   look ...   of course we do. 
 scully? scully? scully, help! help!  help!! sculleeee!!! 
  scully ...  im in here. scully ... 
 i wonder.  what if she managed to establish an uplink, scully? a satellite transmission? 
  artificial life. it could exist. it could be here among us, evolving.   yeah, but what are we but impulses? electrical and chemical through a bag of meat and bones. youre the scientist. you tell me. 
separator look at that. huh... huh? (scully taps her fingernail to his teeth. a denture falls down. she pulls out the fake fangs and shows them to mulder.) oh, shi... don't.  don't even start with me.  i know what i saw.  what do you mean what am i going to tell him? i'm going to tell him exactly what i saw. what are you going to tell him?  now, how is that different?  look, scully, i'm the one who may wind up going to prison here. i got to know if you're going to back me up or what.  i did not overreact. ronnie strickland was a vampire.  you're my proof. you were there.  ok, now you're scaring me. i wanna know exactly what you're gonna tell skinner.  no, no, no, i didn't say that. i just want to hear it the way you saw it.  prison, scully. your cell mate's nickname is going to be large marge. she's going to read a lot of gertrude stein. 
 all right, start at the beginning.  hope you brought your cowboy boots.   yee-haw! actually, a town called chaney, about 50 miles south of there, population 361 ... by all accounts, very rustic and charming, but as of late, ground zero the locus for a series of mysterious nocturnal exsanguinations.  how does that grab ya?  dead cow! exactly. specifically, a dead 900-pound holstein. its body drained of blood as was this one,  ... this one, this one, this one, and so on. six, all in all --approximately one a week over the past six weeks.  two small puncture wounds on the neck?  too bad. we got 'em. check it out.   yeah, that's probably it, satanic cultists. come on, scully.  el chupacabra? no, they got four fangs, not two, and they suck goats, hence the name.  classic vampirism.  and one dead human last night - a vacationer from new jersey.  come on, we got to go.  lock the door on your way out. 
 yes. i'm ... agents mulder and ...  uh ... scully. what do you say, we go take a look at your victim.  come on, scully, get those little legs moving. come on.   nice threads.   your satanic cultists have some sharp little teeth.  go ahead, tell him your, uh,  "theory."  what about the fang marks?  dana?!  he never even knew your first name.  no. go ahead ..... dana.  sheriff, you say this man is exactly as you found him?  have you noticed that this man's shoes are untied?   this means something. sheriff, do you have an old cemetery in town off the beaten path, the creepier the better?  take me there now.   scully, we're going to need a complete autopsy on this man, the sooner the better.  i don't know. 
 come on, sheriff hartwell. 
 the name of it was actually the sam houston motor lodge. 
 what?   nothing. chloral hydrate? 
 nothing. who slipped him the mickey?  what kind of vampire would do that?  we got another dead tourist. you got to do another autopsy.  i won't let it go to waste. 
 yeah. yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. okay. outside 
 that's it?  who's the black private dick who's a sex machine with all the chicks?  shaft! can you dig it? they say this cat shaft is a bad mother ...  shut your mouth! talkin' 'bout shaft. i did not! 
 that's what you're going to tell skinner?  you are afraid to tell the truth.   that's not the way it happened at all. i mean, what are you afraid of? that if you tell it the way it really happened, that you'll look like an idiot, like me?  you're damn right. yesterday morning began like any other morning. you arrived at the office characteristically less than exuberant. i hope you brought your cowboy boots.  actually, it's a little town just south of there called chaney, texas. they've had some incidents down there recently, which i think you'll agree, are pretty unusual.  well, i-i brought some slides with which to better illustrate. here we go.   it's actually six dead cows. and here's the really interesting thing ...  um, well, because of the manner in which they died. all six were mysteriously exsanguinated.  and two little puncture marks right here on the neck. look, i got a slide of that.  and, um, one dead human victim. last night -- a vacationer from new jersey. his body completely drained of blood and two little puncture wounds on his neck. okay, look, scully i-i don't want to jump to any hasty conclusions, but on the strength of the evidence that we have here, i think that what we *may* be looking at is what *appears* to be a series of vampire or *vampire-like* acts.  uh ... well, on the corpses drained of blood and the fang marks on the neck.  but, as always, i'm very eager to hear your opinion.  well, why not?  well ... that's ... one opinion, and i respect that. nonetheless, i'm thinking a murder has been committed here and we can go down there and help bring a killer to justice in whatever form -- mortal or ... immortal he may take.  why would a town with a population of only 361 need that?  he had a slight over bite.  i'm just trying to be thorough. so, anyway, then we went to take a look at the body.  no exam has been done?  that depends on what you think it looks like, sheriff hartwell. vampires have always been with us, in ancient myths and stories passed down from early man.  from the babylonian ekimu to the chinese kuang-shi to motetz dam of the hebrews, the mormo of ancient greece and rome to the more familiar nosferatu of transylvania.  still, that leaves us in something of a quandary because there are as many different kinds of vampires as there are cultures that fear them.  some don't even subsist on blood. the bulgarian ubour, for example, eats only manure.  to the serbs, a prime indicator of vampirism is red hair.  some vampires are thought to be eternal. others are thought to have a life span of only 40 days.  sunlight kills certain vampires while others come and go as they please, day or night. . my point is that we don't know exactly what we're looking for. what kind of vampire, or if you prefer, what kind of vampire this killer wishes himself to be. 
 i'm getting to it. cemetery - day historically, cemeteries were thought to be a haven for vampires as are castles, catacombs and swamps, but unfortunately, you don't have any of those.  yeah. so, we're out here looking for any signs of vampiric activity.  broken or shifted tombstones. the absence of birds singing.  a faint groaning coming from under the earth. the sound of manducation -- of the creature eating its own death shroud.  manducation.  now, sheriff, i know my methods may seem a little odd to you, but..  it's just that my gut instinct tells me that the killer will visit this place. that it may well hold some fascination -- some kind of siren call for him, you know.   maybe after nightfall, sheriff, but he'll come. oh, he'll come. 
 hmm?  i'm getting to it. sunflower seed?  sorry.  historically, certain types of seeds were thought to fascinate vampires. chiefly oats and millet, but you make do with what you have. remember when i said before that we didn't know what type of vampire we were looking for?  well, oddly enough, there seems to be one obscure fact which in all the stories told by the different cultures is exactly the same, and that's that vampires are really, really obsessive-compulsive. yeah, you toss a handful of seeds at one, no matter what he's doing he's got to stop and pick it up. if he sees a knotted rope, he's got to untie it. it's in his nature. in fact, that's why i'm guessing that our victim's shoelaces were untied.  well, he didn't actually pick them up. he counted them.  well, if he had picked them up he would have been a vampire.  well, that would be illegal, right?  yeah.  help!   right down to the shoes.   she ordered a pizza from you? excellent. how much?  let me get my wallet.  how much?  okay, there's $13.  ah, scully. later 
 square in the chest. no effect.  well, i don't think i'll use the phrase "flying squirrel" when i talk to skinner, but ... yeah, that's what happened. well, they'll have to, once they examine ronnie strickland's body. 
 would you stop that?  stop it.   i was drugged!  the coroner's dead?  i noticed that.  i noticed that, too. because tradition states that a vampire needs to sleep in his native soil.  yeah.  fangs are very rarely mentioned in the folklore. real vampires aren't actually thought to have them. it's more an invention of bram stoker's. i think maybe you were right before when you said that this is just a guy who's watched too many dracula movies. he just happens to be a real vampire.   what about his family -- the ones who are going to sue us for 446 million?  no home address?  that's the sheriff. 
 yeah, actually you can. you can stay behind here with agent scully and keep an eye on things while i check something out.  don't say i never did nothing for ya.  where might you be living if your mail came general delivery around here?  you're good. 
 hello?  sleeping late.  ronnie strickland ... you have the right to remain silent. anything you say can and will be used against you in a court of law. come on, cut it out, ronnie.  oh damn...  back!  ahh! no!! aaaaahh! 
 scully, what happened?  they pulled up stakes. 
 and i can neither confirm nor deny agent scully's version of events, but, um...  that is ... essentially, exactly the way it happened. separator all this conjecture - the "ontological shock" that you speak of, for which we are so ill-equipped - is not only false but dangerous. this woman ... this woman presents no good or credible testimony apart from the feel-good message that she promotes.  no, i don't think she's lying. i think that if you prepare people well enough to believe a lie, they will believe it as if it were true. and if you tell them a really big lie, like there are aliens from outer space, much more than a small one, they will believe in it. and if you suggest to them these aliens are doing bad things to them, the ... the power of the suggestion will be to make people believe that certain psychopathologies and neuroses that they're suffering from can now be attributed to that.  no. i just question mindless belief.  dr. werber?  almost five years.  a lot has changed.  well, i've come to distrust a lot of things. i've - i've come to distrust those memories.  for what?  i'm not questioning your methods, dr. werber. i'm questioning myself, and how i was tricked, how i was led to believe through an elaborate staging of events that my sister had been abducted.  i don't think you understand. there's just too much evidence that it's all been a lie. the conspiracy is not to hide the existence of extraterrestrials. it's to make people believe in it so completely that they question nothing.  yeah. is patient "x" any more credible?  hi.  i am?  you may not like me as much as you like that story.  how's that?  cassandra ...  cassandra?  are you here voluntarily?  whatever it is that you're afraid of, i suggest that you check yourself out of here as soon as you can and start living your life. okay?  the man you're talking about died because of what he believed in. he died in a room after i'd been interrogating him - after he received a visit from some men from our government.  cassandra ... there was a time when i would've believed what you're saying without a doubt.  i'm not. [and with that, mulder leaves. do i look like i'm having fun, scully?  that makes sense. i've had my head up my rear end for the last five years.  cassandra spender is living proof that the truth i've so boldly sought for the last five years is the truth of a madman.  one more anal-probing, gyro-pyro levitating-ecoplasm alien anti-matter story, and i'm gonna take out my gun and shoot somebody.  how do you know about cassandra spender?  great.  you know, you try to reveal what's hidden, you try to incite people with the facts, but they'd rather believe some insane nonsense, refusing to believe what our government is capable of.  yeah, and still nobody believes me. [scully looks concerned as she reads the newspaper.] what?  the woman is a nut, scully.  where the government no doubt removed her brain. isn't that what her son stopped you to say, scully?  wish granted. 
 are there any survivors?  from the smell ...  any preliminary theories?  self-immolation?  and what was their relationship to each other? were they families?  and you think it's related to your abduction from the same place?  you think this is some kind of abduction scenario?  do you have any evidence of that?  that's what i'm asking you.  no. i'm going to give you an explanation. [and he walks off. inside the syndicate's headquarters, they observe the scene being played out on the television news. marita covarrubias also watches.] are you ready for this? i've been going over the initial forensics and pathology reports from the incident at skyland mountain and, while the event itself remains unexplained, i think it's less than a mystery who's involved - at least for me, and certainly for you. our pathologists here haven't finalized their reports, but i was able to have three victims selected at random for x-rays. [he moves over to a uv light and places the three x-rays on top of it, for easy viewing.] that's how i found these - small pieces of what looks like metal in the charred cervical tissue here ... here ... and here. implants. [he points to little black dots on each of the x-rays.] i followed up with the families of the three victims and i found that none had any cult associations but two out of the three belong to the local mutual ufo networks, and both of them claimed abduction experiences, and both of them were being treated by a medical health practitioner over the past few months.  take a look. [he hands scully medical files, and she reads from them.] the implants triggered those responses. those people were led to skyland mountain.  by the same government that put the implant in you, to function as a homing mechanism.  why not? a tracking system using military app satellite technology to monitor test subjects. or to stage what people might otherwise believe are alien abductions.  i don't know that yet.  mulder. [we cut to a phone booth where marita covarrubias speaks into the phone to mulder.] yes?  yes.  no.  where are you?  marita? mar ... [mulder turns to face scully, but she is not there. cut to an opening elevator, out of which walks scully. scully walks down the hallway to a bubbler, and takes a drink of water. cut back to the phone booth, as mulder pulls up in his car. he sees no sign of marita and the phone is off the hook. he gets out and walks up to the booth. traces of the black oil remain there, and he's seen it before. we now cut to a phone ringing. spender answers the phone, which is in cassandra's room.] who's this?  this is fox mulder.  i'm actually looking for agent scully. i haven't been able to reach her, and she said that -  what are you talking about?  gone where? separator was she here? is she here?!  she's alive?  scully? [she does not respond. an aide does.] the answer just got loaded onto that chopper! [the chopper door shuts, and the helicopter takes off. mulder and skinner notice agent spender talking to some other men. spender also notices mulder and skinner and walks over to them, but speaks only to mulder.] who?  what time is it? it's time to thank your lucky stars.  i'm not laughing at you. i'm just very happy to be standing here talking to you, that's all.  you were airlifted here in vasogenic shock.  you've got some first-degree burns and scorching on your hands and face.  you don't remember?  is any of this coming back to you?  i was hoping you were going to answer that question for me. [a nurse walks into the room, and sees scully's bed elevated.] i'll come back.  i'm sorry.  what was i doing with her? what makes you think we have anything to do with this?  look -  your mother will be found.  well, at least you're not alone. none of the other survivors have been able to give a cogent account, either.  do you remember when you last saw cassandra spender?  i ran more x-rays. i haven't told anybody yet what i found, though.  that would explain how you were directed to the site, and why you can't remember. it would explain the sensation cassandra spender was describing, her abduction fantasies. it would explain skyland mountain.  it all comes down to a question, scully. one that hasn't been answered or i don't even think honestly addressed. who made that chip in your neck? that chip was found in a military research facility. our government made that chip, implanted it in your neck as part of a secret military project to develop a biochemical weapon, to monitor your immunity, or to destroy you like a lab rat, if the truth were to be exposed. your cancer ... your cure ... everything that's happening to you now - it all points to that chip. the truth i've been searching for? that truth is in you.  i don't trust those memories now.  if i could give you those memories, if i could prove that i was right and that what i believed for so long was wrong ...  i'm familiar with the regression process and dr. werber's work. i've heard hundreds of those types of abduction scenarios.  described and then interpreted into a linear narrative, a, uh, gestalt impression of a subjective, nonlinear experience.  that agent scully witnessed a very powerful event. not unlike the one i described on my regression tape of the false memory of my sister's abduction.  it was staged.  to test a classified military project, or to cover it up.  cassandra spender was taken aboard a military aircraft, as part of the staging.  then i suggest you put that in your report. [mulder stands up and leaves. cut to marita's eye, as it is opened by her doctor. the black oil is still in her, and the syndicate looks on.] isn't that how you like to beat yourself? if those are my last words i can do better.  hey, thanks.  what's stopping you?  i thought you were serious. krycek: kazakhstan, skyland mountain, the site in pennsylvania. they're all alien lighthouses where the colonization will begin, but where now, a battle's being waged. a struggle for heaven and earth. where there is one law: fight or die. and one rule: resist or serve. serve who?  krycek, you're a murderer, a liar and a coward. just because you stick a gun in my chest, i'm supposed to believe you're my friend?  come in. [the door is opened by scully, who is startled to see mulder just sitting on his couch in the dark.] thinking.  oh, the usual. destiny, fate, how to throw a curve ball. the inextricable relationships in our lives that are neither accidental nor somehow in our control, either.  i've been doing some reconsidering of my own.  maybe an answer ... to a question you and i seem to have been destined to ask. he walks past her, and she turns to follow. we're federal agents requesting permission to enter the base.  it's mulder. i wasn't aware that any special authorization was needed to enter.  are you aware there's been a leak and contamination in one of the labs and the personnel on site need immediate medical attention?  why don't you go check on that, son? i'd hate for somebody to die because you were uninformed. [the officer runs off into his booth, and the truck gets closer. buckle up, scully.  who?  nooooooooo! [he fires, but we do not see who he hits. cut to marita's eye, opened. there is no black oil within her. the vaccine worked. the doctor looks up at the well manicured man, who nods in recognition. cut to mulder, inside the truck, with no recollection of what happened. military officers shine flashlights on him, and he notices that the faceless man - the rebel - is gone. the officers handcuff him and take him away, throwing him into the car with scully.] i don't know. he covers his face, almost in tears, but she comforts him.separator arthur dales?   i'm a-a profiler with the behavioral sciences unit.  you are arthur dales, former special agent with the bureau? i need to ask you some questions about a man named edward skur. you opened a-a file on him in 1952.  i-i brought the case file here with me.   it's, uh... it's an unsolved case.  mr. dales, most of your report has been censored... as you can see.  now, if somebody's trying to bury this case. i'd like to know why. according to your report, edward skur disappeared 38 years ago, before you had a chance to arrest him for a series of stranger killings in which the victims' internal organs had all been removed.  yes. last week. shot to death by a sheriff serving an eviction notice. a man was also found in his bathroom with all his soft tissue removed.   sir, sir, m-my name is mulder.  you know that name... and so did edward skur. how?  uh... i'm sorry, sir.  i-i, uh... i don't, i don't see the connection.   good morning, mr. dales. i brought you some coffee.  edward skur died saying a name--my name. my father's name.  my father and i don't really speak.   mr. dales, i want the truth, and i will subpoena you to get it, if i have to. 
 the man that edward skur killed 38 years ago--was my father involved? 
 how? 
  the coroner wasn't able to determine how.  you said in your report that uh, skur was suspected of being a communist?   i can't believe my father threw in with these men. he let them dictate his conscience.  skur died saying my father's name. why?   well, there was, um... there was one thing you didn't explain. it was, uh... how skur was able to get away... how he was able to live in obscurity for the last 38 years.   why would anyone do that? why let a killer go free? separator  i have the same pair of pants. who exterminated him?  im going to assume the killer knew what he was doing and that "c" wasnt one of his initials?   shes been blind since birth.  "fraud ... petty theft .... aggravated assault."  so, what, you think that uh, she caught little monster trying to snatch the pebble from her hand?  including how a blind girl could get the drop on an ex-con and bleed him out with surgical precision.  all right, so you really believe that she did this? you just dont know how.    well how soon can i meet her?  special agent mulder.  an innocent woman. i hope. 
 how did you know there was just one stab wound?  mmm hmm.  im curious, marty.  if you didnt kill him, why you were at the crime scene cleaning up and doing such a piss poor job of it.  why dont we just stop playing games here, okay? i mean  you probably dont know a feather duster from a ducks ass, do you? i mean its ridiculous. youre a blind woman, for gods sake. so why dont you just tell us who did kill paco ordonez, and agent scully and i can go arrest him, and you can go home and work on your angry-young-blind-girl comedy routine.  or we can just ...  stay here and entertain each other for the next 48 hours. 
 all i see is a woman whos adapted to her impairment admirably. shes honed all her other senses around her blindness.  i dunno i - i think she just wants us to think shes strong, independent.  its important to her.   i dont think she did do it.  yeah.  you go ahead. i want - i want to i want to investigate something. 
  shes lying.   she knew paco ordonez, but i dont think she murdered him.   well i made her take a polygraph test. she passed on every question except one did she *see* the murder.   no, she cracked, scully. she was lying. im sure of it.   not with her eyes.   i dont know.  then what is that? 
 what is it, marty? what do you see? 
 no. no, according to her examiner, she is completely without sight or any kind of light sensitivity.  she doesnt exactly fit the definition "blind girl."  well, there is evidence of some kind of neurological activity which caused her pupils to dilate.  to me, it indicates some reaction to stimuli. some kind physical response to images in her minds eye.  i didnt say it did.  yes.  well, she was examined. there were no cuts or wounds on her.  i read your *confession*. detective pennock is typing it up as we speak for you to sign.  youll make him a very happy man.  just for me, im a little puzzled by this sudden change of heart.  i - i just ... why kill *them*. paco ordonez ... susan forester?  did you even know that was her name? susan forester. she was 30 years old. native of wilmington. she waitressed part-time. she lived alone with her two cats...  i *like* you, marty. i *admire* you. and i dont want to see you confess to crimes you didnt commit.  no, i dont. not the way you think i do.  i believe you witnessed both murders. you - you saw them, somehow. but you were way cross town when they happened. you were a $60 cab ride away.  i think you tried to stop them. you tried to, but you didnt get there in time.  marty, whoever did this, theyre going to kill again. and you *can* help stop that.  whos worth pleading guilty for, marty?  you didnt do it. and im not going to let this happen.  do you hear me? marty? 
 well, if you think about it, detective, it actually proves nothing.  just like she *described.*  skeptical?!  ive been called a lot of things. skeptical, however, is not one. 
  skeptical.    what?   well, i know that, and you know that, and so does whoever martys protecting, but pennock is salivating right now. what we have to do is convince marty. i got an idea. ill get back to you.  
 i know who youre protecting, marty. and i think i know why. youre protecting the man who murdered your mother.  i read the original police report from 1970. your mother died from a single stab wound to the right kidney -- as did paco ordonez and susan forester. dead at the hands of an unknown assailant.  no. i know. but for once you were there when it happened. she was pregnant with you at the time. she died on the operating table as doctors were trying to save her. you were born ... just barely. but the interruption in blood flow you suffered most likely caused your blindness.  i think that during that time ... as you lost one sense ... you gained another. that somehow ... a connection was formed between you and your mothers killer.  you see through his eyes. you always have. you dont want to, you just do. and because of that you feel responsible for his actions, but youre not. and youre sitting here in prison for crimes you didnt commit. it isnt going to accomplish anything, marty. 
 theres absolutely no point to you doing this, marty. were going to find him with or without your help.  hi, marty.  detective pennock is with the warden right now arranging for your release.  the charges against you are being dropped. youre no longer a suspect in this case.  yeah, well, confession is worthless if its a lie, and yours was a lie.  just that youre innocent, which is something they would have found out on their own anyway. the locker you sent us to? it had prints on it, but they werent yours.  yeah, well, somebody else wasnt so careful. charles wesley gotts, an ex-con. convicted in 1970 of aggravated assault. he was paroled three weeks ago and hes been missing ever since.  i happen to believe that, marty. the pcr tests confirmed that it was his blood on the glove. the tests confirmed something else, marty. hes your father.  that was the connection.    detective pennock has agreed to not pursue aiding and abetting charges if you agree to help us ... if you agree to help us find him. we need your help, marty. you can end it now.  im sure thats what youve always wanted.  all right, stand by.  just in time for the surprise party.  yeah, she described this place perfectly, right down to the matchbooks.  she didnt know his name. theyve never met. hes been in prison her entire life.  i - i dont think she was sure exactly what she was seeing but it was more like a - a constant image in her mind that she learned to live with over time. up until three weeks ago.  he was paroled and everything changed.  everythings changed for her, scully. i dont think were going to find him in there. she doesnt want us to get him. she misdirected us on purpose.  no, shes not. she never was.  pennocks not picking up.  its not him shes been protecting. if he goes back to prison, so does she. until now, shes never had a choice. 
 is it my cologne?  marty, let me speak to the judge on your behalf.  we found where hed been staying. it was a motel not far from where paco ordonez had been murdered.  well, youre lucky he wasnt a fan of the ice capades. 

separator  hey, scully. im returning your call.    why? whats going on?   hey, look, im, uh im kind of tailing a possible suspect right now, so im kind of rushed, so, uh 
  who?   you want to give me a hint? anything?   all right, ill talk to you later. 
 scully? arent you the secret squirrel.  just got a look at that body they wheeled out of here. youve been holding out on me.  dara kernofs family? 
 no, those are her birth records. the adoption records have been sealed.  no. actually she was a quadruplet one of four girls. was this, uh cross found like this?  its inverted. upside down. thats a protest, a sacrilege against the church.  its your case, remember, scully? do you have any suspects?  could the, uh, the victim have placed it?  and they both died the same way?  their physical deformities could account for that.  look, scully. i know you dont really want my help on this, but can i offer you my professional opinion?  youve got a bona-fide, super-crazy, religious wacko on your hands.  the mote in the eye, the eyes as windows to the soul, an eye for an eye hes working from ancient scripture ancient text maybe even the bible. he may even think hes doing gods work.  scully, look at this. (begins thumbing through it.) the gnostic gospels, book of enoch book of j apocrypha im surprised theres nothing here from "jesus christ superstar".  theres no telling.  (suspicious) we hear you were very anxious to do so.  why adopt her?  why adopt her?  you said you wanted to protect paula. from what?  i know people in glass houses shouldnt throw stones, blah, blah, blah, but that guy is paranoid.  all that crap about the fight for all souls, the literature we saw in there, the performance we just witnessed it all fits. he thinks hes doing gods laundry.  if he does, hes even more dangerous than he appears. even if hes not your killer, he is hiding something.  well, he says he knew the mother, but wont give up her name. maybe shes still alive. i think you have enough to bring him in for questioning if not make an arrest.   what do you mean?  and why would god allow this to happen. why do bad things happen to good people? religion has masqueraded as the paranormal since the dawn of time to justify some of the most horrible acts in history.  he may well have his reasons but he seems to use a lot of psychotics to carry out his job orders. you want to find out who did this? i suggest you autopsy the body of paula koklos before its interred, before the man who killed her has a chance to find her sisters. 
  hey, scully, its me. i did a little more digging on those adoption records.   i think i got a lead on that third sister.   she was under county care ten years ago. apparently, she wandered into a teen crisis center here in dc last week, homeless. that guy over at, uh, social services, starkey hes helping me canvas the area.    what did you find?   well, then, maybe she flew here, scully.   why dont you hold that thought and tell it to me and father gregory when you see us? 


 stop right there! move into the light. move into the light. hands where i can see them!  wheres the girl?  where is she?  what are you asking for, father? mercy or forgiveness? you know they say when you talk to god its prayer, but when god talks to you, its schizophrenia. what is your god telling you, father?  you pray for their souls now. thats convenient.  i am only interested in the truth. i would like to know why you did what you did to three defenseless, helpless young girls. what in your sick mind would possess you to burn their eyes out! did they see you for who you are, like i do?  what does this mean, father?   scully, they think theyve found the fourth girl.  the fourth girl is roberta dyer. transferred to maryland adoption services in 1995 when her foster father got a job in gaithersburg. adoption services were called out to investigate allegations of child abuse in september of that year. three more times in 96, then two more times in 97. 
 whats wrong?  scully? scully, dont let this guy get in your head. thats the last thing you want. sometimes the most twisted ones are the most persuasive.  well, thats okay. as long as hes locked up here, it doesnt matter.  by who? scully, i think youre the one whos being misled. not just willingly, but willfully. ive never seen you more vulnerable or susceptible or more easily manipulated and it scares me because i dont know why.  i think you should step away. personal issues are making you lose your objectivity, clouding your judgement.  okay. 
 we have a warrant to search the premises for your daughter.  we checked at school. she hasnt been there in over a week. we have reason to believe that her life may be in danger. if you know something  whats behind this door?  well, can you unlock it?   is this her room? where is she, mr. dyer? where is she?!  where is she?!  who?  who?!   yeah, hi, scully. its me.   who? 
  we didnt find her. the fourth girl she was here. 
  hey, scully. scully, you there? answer me. scully? scully! 

separator  im on him!  scully.  i lost him.   he got away. 
 "what happened?"   i dont know what youre talking about.  were late for the hearing. were not all dead? 
 haleys extremely suspicious to the point of paranoia. hes got military training and a guerrilla mentality.   yeah?  i saved your ass.   i didnt know about the operation.   no. the justice department got an anonymous tip. i found out a half hour before it went down. i did what i could.   what else can i say? i-i got as much to lose here as you do. they catch you, youll flip me. look, i believe in your ideals and your goals but the only reason i tolerate your methods is because the governments are worse.   hey, you came to me, remember? i mean, what more do you want from me? ive risked everything. ive given you information. my partner is seriously suspicious. if thats not enough for you, thats all ive got.  
  yeah?  (still wearing the hood) ooh. is this the pepsi challenge? how bout some, uh, fresh air, boys? (they pull the hood off. mulder blinks his eyes against the light. haley is sitting across from mulder.) okay, deal me in. (one of the men who brought mulder in grabs mulders left pinky finger and holds it in his fist.) well, you might want to put that hood back on me unless you want to see a grown man cry.  i told you on the phone. finger breaking man twists and breaks mulders finger. mulder screams in pain.) i was set up. im telling the truth. wait, wait! wait! i let you go!  no. no. no. (fbm twists the finger again. mulder screams.) you want me to lie and say yes? (fbm twists again. mulder screams.) (to fbm) im going to kill you, you son of a bitch! im going to kill you! (to haley) if i set you up you think id even get into the car with this nazi piece of shi! (fbm twists again. mulder yells and head butts fbm, knocking fbm to the floor.) (in lots of pain) i risked everything! if i was lying, thered be federal agents descending on this place like the wrath of god right now. (to fbm) if you touch me again, youd better kill me! (fbm twists again. mulder screams, weaker now.) (weakly) yeah.  no, i didnt set you up. if you got set up, it was one of yours. (fbm bends the finger all the way back. mulder cries out, then puts his face down on his unbroken hand and sobs.)  scully, get out of here.  get out of here!  i dont know what youre talking about  nothing. 
 yeah, if you keep pulling it around like that. 
 14 people? that doesnt make any sense.   theyre testing me, too. haleys paranoid and spooked. i was sure he was going to kill me.   they still need something from me and im sensing theres someone haley trusts even less the man giving him his orders. someone i havent met yet. a guy named august bremer. 
 terrorist lie detector.  well, i must have. im still here. they told me what they want. documentation from the federal reserve bank. fund transfer schedules for the eastern seaboard. cash money.  i think i convinced haley that the near miss in folger park was due to a mole inside his own group. he wants surveillance files on them.  theyre waiting for my call.   if you dont hear from me by midnight feed my fish. tell the gimp to back off. 
 i need that back by tomorrow. 
 no.  i have my beliefs.  id prefer it didnt come to that.  right. 
 i got it! 
 no. hes still alive.  what are you doing? what are you doing?  the bank heist was a decoy. to contaminate the money you didnt take.   they're testing me, too. haley's paranoid... and spooked. i was sure he was going to kill me.   they still need something from me. and i'm sensing there's someone haley trusts even less.  i dont need a car. you can just call me a cab, thatd be fine.  go where? 
  you hear that?  who are you?  fbi. whos in charge? whos in charge? i need everybody out of the bank! 
 the money! they sprayed the money.  how did you know it was this bank?  with the ?  august bremer, or whatever his real name is hes working with us.  youre saying i was set up?  i was being used? this whole operation? the people who died in that theatre?  the hell they arent. those were tests on us to be used on someone else.  i want that money rechecked.  that moneys as dirty as you are, isnt it. isnt it?  i want people to know the truth. separator why cant the chicago field office take care of it?   because the manifesto contains bizarre overtones claims of a paranormal nature?   monsters. im your boy. 
 i mustve done something to piss him off.  get stuck with this jerk-off assignment or have i finally reached that magic point in my career where every time somebody sees bigfoot or the virgin mary on a tortilla i get called to offer my special insight on the matter?   not yours, anyway. theres no reason both of us should go to chicago. ill take care of it.  im monster boy, right? you recognize the voice?  your company had a violent incident in its recent history?  may i borrow the tape?  well, its best to err on the side of caution. can you hire security for the building?  use you best judgement. ill be in touch.  scully:  scully. mulder:  hi. its me. i need you to check on something.  its a phrase, "hiding in the light." its on this tape that im looking into.   yes, and i didnt say that it wasnt. uh, "to hide in the light" or "hiding in the light" some form of that. i think its in an old case file somewhere that i got hidden away.   im not sure, but i appreciate it.   hello .. hello? 
 why should we be afraid of mr. pincus, gary? id really like to hear what you have to say.  my name is mulder.  applying for a job.  i get that. why should we be afraid of mr. pincus, gary?  gary, i want to believe that youre protecting us, but, uh, im kind of afraid of that rifle. it makes it hard for us actual people to concentrate on what youre saying.  gary! 
 its just my cell phone. let me get it.  its not an it, gary. its a he. its a man you just killed. what was his name?  answer the phone, gary.  no, gary.  dont do this.  dont do this, gary. 
 put down the rifle.  no, im fine.  do you have any idea why he fixated on you the way he did?  you mentioned another incident with another employee at a plant in kansas city in 1994.  were you at that plant at that time?  what about lakeland, florida. have you ever lived there?   i dont know. 
 close the door. there was a reason the phrase "hiding in the light" seemed so familiar to me. i found it or variations of it in five other x-files. "hiding in plain view" "hiding in the open" "lurking in the open." all to describe some sort of manifestation of evil which goes unnoticed be everyone except the claimant in each case.  seven cities in all dating back ten years. vinylright has offices within 50 miles of 4 of those cities. greg pincus has worked for vinylright for ten years.  what if gary lambert was right?  just bear with me for a moment. what if such a creature existed that could camouflage itself by clouding the minds of its victims? there are antecedents for it in nature. in the insect world, mantids are said to hypnotize their prey.  what if it could induce a visual hallucination a sort of temporary conversion disorder?  only gary lambert could see through it somehow, as could the others maybe because of some heightened adrenaline level of maybe just because he knew where to look somehow.  yeah, but did he see it because he was disturbed, or was he disturbed because he saw it?  i saw it, too.  does that make me disturbed? demented? does that make me sick, too?  folie a deux? its not that, scully. its not helsinki syndrome either. what i saw was real, and there may be a way to prove it.  lambert pointed out certain individuals he said had been victimized by pincus, turned into zombies. the man he shot, backus was one of them. if you would autopsy the body  scully, if this is all in my mind i would be very grateful if you would prove that.  then ill prove it without you.   ill know it when i see it. 
 lambert was tracking his bosss movements over the years.  gathering evidence. 
 did you see her? you see where she went?   you got to her, too, didnt you?  i was too late. you changed her somehow. you infected her.  you dont see whats going on here.   lambert knew your secret. he knew you were sucking the humanity out of these people, feeding on them!   get out of the way! 
 look at it!   look at it! look at it!  five years together, scully. you must have seen this coming.  did you examine backus body? what did you find?  "more or less?" what is that supposed to mean?  or, that lambert was telling the truth and that man was dead before he was gunned down.  scully .. when that monster, pincus whatever the hell you want to call it when he attacked that woman last night he did something to the back of her neck. h-he bit her there, or he injected something in there. theres got to be evidence of that. you got to check for that.   *you* have to be willing to see.  scully, you *have* to believe me. nobody else on this whole damn planet does or ever will. youre my one in five billion. 
  we can do without these, huh? what do you say?  nurse. nurse! nurse! its here! nurse! its here!  its here! its at the window!   there is something there is something at the window and its trying to get in here. please unstrap me so that i can stop it.  undo my straps so i can check.  no, dont! no! just please ! please.  okay. just, uh just untie me anyway please. 
 what are you doing?   help! somebody help! 
 help! help! help! 
 what did you tell him?  which is? 
separator