 how do i know you're for real?  first i want you to come somewhere with me. i want you to come with me to see my mother. 
 stay out of his way, scully, he doesn't want to hurt you. you can't use your gun! 
 come on. 
 scully, get the car! this way.damn.this way.
 hey! jeremiah! jeremiah, stop! what are you doing? you can't leave here!  i need your help! my mother is dying!
 who?  what can they do? we're working in the light. they, they can't stop us without exposure, without consequence.  the larger plan? you mean colonization. i don't understand...  my mother is dying. i need to take you to see her right now.  how can i stop it?  no, look, there's no time!  scully, it's me. where are you? why?  are you okay, scully? 
 listen to me, there's going to be... there's going to be people looking for me. they're going to think they can get to me through you. 
 no, no, no, hold on, just, just listen for a second, scully. i need you to do something for me. i had to steal a car from an airport in alberta. there's going to be a record of me going through canadian customs and i need you to cover my tracks.i also need you to know that i'm okay, scully.i'm fine. okay?
 who?  how much further from here?  let's go. 
 what happened to this man?  there's a work order here. it's for yesterday. he's only been here a little more than twenty-four hours. you know what killed him, don't you? what is it?  being grown for what?  what is this? what's going on here?  that looks just like my sister. but that's not possible. she's no older than the day she was taken.samantha?samantha! samantha?samantha? samantha?samantha, it's me. it's me, fox, your brother.do you remember me?what's wrong with her? what do you mean?  what are you talking about?  how'd they get here?  who takes care of them?  they're clones.  she's coming with us.  well, then who is she?  well, then explain it to me. explain it to me now! bees. are bees what killed that man we found?  it's probably not a good idea to hide in there.  but you do? somebody lead me, i can't see anything.is that the only way out?
 come on! 
 scully, where are you right now? 
 i'm still in canada, but i'm catching a plane soon. i need you to meet me on the other end. 
 at the hospital where my mother is.  her life depends upon me and my party getting there safely.  jeremiah smith... and someone else. i'm going to need some protection, scully.
 what do you mean?  they'll get their chance. 
 please, you can't kill him...he can't die.  that girl is my sister.  kill me, let them go.  for my mother's. 
 i can't... there's nothing. 
 she'll never know. she'll never know...
 i could have saved her, scully.  i had one chance... and i let it slip away.  he took me to a place with green fields. and i saw my sister. she was just a little girl. i've seen too many things not to believe.  you put such faith in your science, scully. but... the things i've seen, science provides no place to start.  i feel like i came so close.  how?  hi, was he able to review the material that i sent him?  and will he see me?  a friend. you know, i've been inquiring with each of the special representatives all month about the farmland in canada. i've been trying to get some answers and all i've gotten are dead ends.  i've suffered... i've suffered some very personal... losses recently, and... i was... i was hoping... that, um...
separator what are your thoughts on that, scully?  no, unfortunately. it's going on three days.  no, no hair and fiber evidence either. the rain washed it all away. the autopsy did come back on the dead boyfriend, though. it's a puncture wound through the left eardrum and into the brain, possibly from a long needle or awl.  don't you see the photo?  it was taken by a sixty-five year old druggist moments before she was abducted. that's a passport photo from a local drugstore. the druggist who took that photo is the last known person to have seen mary lefante. only he claims that wasn't the photo he was taking. he says the photo he was taking was normal in every respect. he only came forward to the police when he heard the woman was missing.  that is what you would think. i'm sure you did it just fine.   so which one of us gets to use the stun gun on bruno hauptmann back there?  so you think that would make it look like she posed screaming for a passport photo?  oh. 
 i'm not sure i have a theory. 
 yeah, agents mulder and scully.  inspector.  mary lefante was intercepting them.  yeah, but why would she stab her boyfriend through the ear? the magic was gone? did you find a camera anywhere here? 

 what would be the point of that?  here it is.  stand back, scully, it's loaded. 
 in the sixties, a bellhop named ted serios became kind of famous for taking what he called "thoughtographs". he claimed that by concentrating on an unexposed film negative, he could create a photographic representation of what he saw in his mind. he did landscapes, cathedrals, the queen of england.  also known as "skotographs." the literature on thought photography dates back almost to louis daguerre.  look at that. 
 i think he was here, scully.  mary lefante's abductor. i think he stalked her.  he could have come up right here. i think he came in here and he looked at her through the window, this close. close enough to affect the film in that camera.  meant to conceal what? this isn't about mail fraud, scully, that's just incidental. what if ... what if ... someone had this ability? an image like this would be a peak into that person's mind.  the fantasy of a killer. the dental anesthetic.  would that account for her condition?  what would?  what is it?  so we're looking for a doctor? someone with training?   mary?  we better go in there and get her. 
 charles selchik, certified public accountant  ... dead from a stab wound through the ear ... cleaning crew found the body.  his secretary, alice brandt, age 32. her family confirmed that she was working late last night.  apparently none, but if the m.o. remains the same ...  yeah. i keep thinking about that word that mary lefante was repeating - "unruhe." i checked the michigan phone directory. it appears under three different spellings but none within 80 miles of here.  that's what i've been thinking. apparently in german, it means trouble or strife.  you took german in high school, scully?  unrest, huh?  he wasn't there, scully.  it would have affected the photos. trott, what did you find?  that may be the only evidence we get.  what's here for them to find? this guy is obviously very good at what he does. he's left behind no witnesses, no latent prints. the only thing he's left are those photos, which leads me to believe he doesn't even know that he has that ability.  you may be right, scully, you should check it out. let me know what you find.  i'll be back in dc. i want special photo to run this. i still think the answer is in here.  well, that's all the more reason to fully investigate the one and only hard piece of evidence we do have. i'll be in touch. can you get rid of the blurriness surrounding her, here?  why do you say that?  what about this face, here? can you bring that up at all?  ok, do that. 
 ok, thank you.  ncic shows no match for that man.  how about this shape up here? what is that?  can you take that and flip it so that that's on the bottom? is that a shadow? 
 it's the kidnapper's shadow. it's like he's looming over her, it's like he's standing over her, he means to pass judgement on her, like a god.  scully, i may have something for you on the kidnapper. it's something about his legs.  they're unusually long, they're out of proportion. i'm thinking he's either very tall, or he's not but wants to be. scully? scully, are you there? 
 you want to tell us about the first time you were arrested, gerry? in 1980, you attacked your father with an axe handle. you beat him so severely that he spent the remainder of his life in a wheelchair.  yeah, gerald thomas schnauz, diagnosed and treated for a paranoid schizophrenic disorder six years in melvoin psychiatric hospital, released 1986. so what you been up to since 1986, gerry?  well, how did you feel about that?  says here that you have a sister. where is your sister, gerry?  actually, it says here she committed suicide in 1980. that was a bad year. what else happened in 1980, gerry?  hey, gerry. this your father? 
 you left it for me. you left it like a fingerprint. is this what you see when you close your eyes, gerry? 
 is that what you see? gerry ... tell me where alice brandt is.  gerry ... tell me how i can find her. hey, scully, that word "unruhe", "unrest", is bothering me. maybe he thought he was curing them somehow, saving him from damnation, from those things in the pictures, you know, he called them the howlers.  well, then that photo wouldn't be his fantasy. it would be his nightmare.  because i want to know.  this wound's in the wrong place. he was shot in the throat. he wasn't trying to save this victim.  he took the passport camera and all the film in the store.  he wants to continue his work. 
 you think you interrupted his stalking?  hold on a second. you bring the car around. i just want to wait for this. i'll be right there. 
 scully! scully! 
 scully! any sightings?  he's switching cars. he's going to do that two or three times.   he's got six fingers here...   he's got six fingers.  what about his apartment?  what about friends, relatives, co-workers? does he have a summer house? a winter house?  let me see his wallet. 
  recipient of the bronze star medal during the korean war ... gerald schnauz, sr., dds. he's a retired dentist. he was here.  six fingers, right.  why are there six?  what?  damn it!  that's five headstones. and the father makes six. come on!   fan out. check the tree line. 
 (shouts) scully! (scully pulls her left arm free, pulls the duct tape from her mouth and cries out.) scully! (he hits the door window twice with the pipe and it breaks. mulder reaches inside, unlocks the door and enters. scully and schnauz are still struggling inside. schnauz turns to mulder, who shoots him once. schnauz falls. (to scully) are you hurt? (scully shakes her head) (to corning, who has arrived at the door) get an ambulance! (both scully and mulder are breathing heavily. scully frees her other hand, and mulder takes her left hand and helps her up. she walks past him to the door, shielding her eyes for a moment from the bright light outside. at the door, she turns to look back at schnauz for a moment, then steps out.)(mulder has watched scully leave. he then looks down at the photographs lying next to schnauz. he bends over to pick one up. the photograph shows schnauz lying on the floor of the motorhome, surrounded by photographs, very similar to his current posture.)separator fife?  well, you could just lock your door to the office.  i guess we can rule out murder as the cause of death, huh?  there's something rotten in mayberry. 
 apparently not much in this case if she just threw it out with the trash. 
 why, is there a history of genetic abnormalities in your family?  well, just find yourself a man with a spotless genetic make-up and a really high tolerance for being second-guessed and start pumping out the little uber-scullies. 
 hmm? well, aside from the need for corrective lenses and a tendency to be abducted by extraterrestrials involved in an international governmental conspiracy, the mulder family passes genetic muster. now, scully, that child inside is a tragedy. some young parents, probably scared kids, disposed of an unwanted birth... in a very certain sense, infanticide is involved, but this is not an f.b.i. matter. we should let local authorities investigate that.  scully, uh, sheriff taylor, uh, implied that the boys in that family were not really the type that could easily get dates.  do we?  yeah, yeah, but there's no sister. the mother's been dead for ten years.  and kidnapping is a bureau matter. scully....i never saw you as a mother before.
 whoa! don't move, don't move. damn. not if i can't get the knicks game.  good night, mom. 
 oh, you don't have to, uh, lock your doors around here. 
 big american car. 
 where are they?  his chest is one big hematoma. there's wood shavings embedded in what's left of the cranium. they really went caveman on them.
 you suspected these abnormalities.  triple? hey, scully, what if... each of the peacock brothers was the father of that child?
 what if generations of autosomal breeding could produce such a mutation? 
 well, in any case, they haven't ventured too far from home. we should request back-ups from pittsburgh and go pick them up.  yeah, but we're outnumbered. we could further endanger the victim in doing that. 
 oh, that was just a little bit too chuck bronson for me, scully. 
 ah, they probably heard about the warrants issued for their arrest.  no, we searched the house, scully, they weren't home.  we're getting into position. (pastor pants and slowly starts to the front door, keeping his gun aimed. mulder and scully get behind a rusted chicken coop. scully uses her binoculars to look through a window. she can see the back of the door clearly.) the eldest will move in to ensure the prey has been killed, and circling the prey signals to the others that it's safe to approach. (scully looks through her binoculars to see the brothers starting to beat pastor's carcass. they snarl.)what we're witnessing, scully, is undiluted animal behavior. mankind, absent its own creation of civilization, technology and information, regressed to an almost prehistoric state, obeying... only the often savage laws of nature.(scully shakes her head.)we're outsiders invading the den, trying to take away their one chance at reproducing, which we're going to do. yeah, but we can try and divert them out of the house. (he points to the pigpen and they go. mulder tries to push the pigs towards the door as scully unlocks it. the pigs squeal. scully sighs as she goes over to mulder and tries to push as well.)scully, would you think less of me as a man if i told you i was kind of excited right now?(he grunts.)is there some secret farmer trick to get these things moving? yeah, that'll work. (they start to slowly push them out. scully grunts.) and people call me "spooky." (they hear a door slam and look up to see sherman walking out of the house as the pigs squeal, starting to run out. sherman goes over to the water pump and washes the blood off his hands, then looks up to see the pigs running rampant. mulder and scully, ducking behind the bars to the pen, watch as sherman grunts and runs into the house. all three brothers run out and start to chase the pigs. seeing their chance, mulder and scully sneak their way towards the house. reaching the door, mulder picks up a board. he pushes the door open and a spear shoots through it and the window behind it. scully goes in, then mulder resets the trap and closes the door.) oh, no. (he holds up a paper with the headline "elvis presley dead at 42." there is a picture of elvis under it. mulder makes a sad face and scully looks at him strangely. mulder drops the paper as the two hear a squeaking. they go into the next room, the peacock's bedroom/den. scully looks at the pictures on the wall of past peacocks, all deformed. one particular picture catches her eye, of a man and a woman sitting on the porch. mulder notices marks on the floor and looks under the bed. a deformed woman looks away, screaming.) it's all right, ma'am!  we're federal agents! we're here to help you!  ma'am.  they've got her strapped to some kind of board or something.  ma'am, we're here to help you. calm down. ma'am, we're here to help. we're from the f.b.i. (the woman screams.)take it easy, ma'am, take it easy. it's all right, it's all over.(he and scully look at her amputated limbs, giving them pause.)we're from the f.b.i., we're... we're here to help... w, we're going to make sure that you're safe. we're g, we're going to make sure that you get home.(scully looks back at the picture of the man and the woman on the porch. they are the same woman. the woman sobs.) the others may have heard the screams. i'm going to check on their position.  she's not going anywhere. (they start walking.) i'm sure she's an accessory. at least she aided and abetted.  which means that when edmund was a kid, he could ground the other two for playing with his things? the brothers killed three people, scully. tell her we're going to bring them in... and try convincing her that she's the one way they can get out of this without any of her boys getting hurt. all right, i'm going to keep an eye on them. (scully starts back to the room.)scully, w, watch your step. this place is rigged.(scully carefully makes her way back into the room. down the hallway a little farther, a cord is strung across the hallway near the floor, triggering a large pointed object to come crashing down. mulder watches as the brothers start to round up the last of the pigs. he sighs. scully kneels under the bed and looks at mrs. peacock.) scully! (he takes a desk and slides it in front of the door. sherman starts to bang on the door with his shoulder. mulder aims his gun.)federal agent! i'm armed!(scully runs into the room to see sherman banging. mulder fires his gun at the ceiling, giving sherman pause.)stop, or i'll fire!(sherman continues. behind mulder, george raises a chair to hit mulder.) where's the other brother... edmund?  i looked everywhere, they're both gone.  i think time already caught them, scully. (he heads back to the car. she follows.)separator hey. i heard you were down here slicing and dicing. whos the lucky stiff?  theres a michael jackson joke in here somewhere, but i cant quite find it.   requested by whom?  the cdc in a kidnap case?  based on what other evidence?   thats interesting. what, uh, what sort of disease is this?  so this man died of a disorder. he and four other young black men who conveniently contracted the disease in succession and then disappeared without any explanation whatsoever.  scully, has it occurred to you that this might just be a...a little pr exercise?  to divert attention from the fact that young black men are dying and nobody seems to be able to bring in a suspect? the perception being that nobody cares.    did you lift any forensic evidence from the body?   im going to join the snipe hunt .... if you dont mind .... before the body count rises. 
 agent pendrell. thanks for turning this materials analysis around on such short notice.  shes not coming.  she had a date. 
 breathe, agent pendrell. its with a dead man.  shes doing an autopsy.  you said you found something?  well, it looks like some kind of thorn.  help me out.  how could something this small travel 5,000 miles around the world and wind up on owen sanders?   it contains a cerebropathic glycoside. does that mean anything to you?   is it lethal?   did the toxicology scan detect any of it in owen sanders blood?   could his body have metabolized the substance?   does that tell you anything about anything?   his pituitary gland?   so you found evidence that this is a disease?   okay, well why dont you let me know as soon as you find anything out.   off to water the seeds of doubt. bye-bye.  
 ms. covarrubias?  agent mulder. fox mulder.  sorry i frightened you.  im not sure why, but i thought you might be in a position to help me.  four young men are missing in philadelphia. one of the men was found dead last night. this seed was recovered from the victims body.  its from a rare species of plant found only in west africa. do you know anything about this case?  is there any way you could find something out about it?  is that a yes or a no.   you cant, or you wont? you made an overture to me. you left an opening. tell me im wrong. tell me theres nothing here and ill just walk away. either way, i need to know. 
 what happened here? scully: we have another missing young man. his name is alfred kittel. 17 years old. hes african american. his mother called the police around 3:00 this morning. how does she know hes missing?   or a reaction to a powerful cortical depressant.  you find alfred kittel and you find another one of those weird african seeds.   three months ago one week before the first person was reported missing the new york port authority filed that with the faa.  like owen sanders, this man wasnt an albino either. not until he was found dead on a charter flight from west africa, from burkina faso. the embassy demanded that the body be returned before an autopsy could be performed.  yeah, undetermined, scully, but not necessarily unknown. 
 im sorry. we wont take up much of your time. the ins district chief told us that you were in charge of most of the casework for aliens emigrating from africa and the caribbean.  well, were looking for somebody that came a little more recently than that.  on a flight from burkina faso? this is the passenger manifest from the charter company.  id like you to cross reference those names on that list with anyone applying for permanent resident status or a work visa within the last three months.  hes not home. we might as well get comfortable.  scully, i think if you looked up from the microscope for a minute, youd see that whats really missing is a motive.  if this is a health crisis.  maybe we wont have to wait.  mr. aboah? can i talk to you a minute? 
 boy, this guy can move.  he has to be. 
 hey, scully. look at this.  nothing?  well, hes some kind of case the way he disappeared down that drain pipe.  about alfred kittel and about several other young men who have gone missing since his arrival in philadelphia three months ago.  we only arrested him because he ran when we tried to question him, and i want to know why he ran.  that man ran because hes hiding something.  and no amount of tests you run on him, no science is going to find that. excuse me.   to find someone who i know plotted to deceive, inveigle and obfuscate. 
 thank you for seeing me at such a late hour, sir.  with all due respect, sir, i think you already know.  `something happened on a flight from your country about three months ago --- something that you felt compelled to hide even from your own ambassador. the state department said the request to stop investigating this mans death came directly from you.  now, i understand the need to protect your diplomatic position, but more men are dying, sir.  youd be surprised at what i believe, sir.  this time?  what kinds of stories?  come out to do what, sir?  then, it was a nightmare.   youll have to find him first.  i was looking for you down in quarantine. samuel aboahs gone. disappeared. 
  i think this was his getaway vehicle.  he didnt even touch his jell-o.  
 this guy can squeeze into a coffee can, scully. he could be anywhere.  hell find another victim.  we interrupted him before he could finish. 
 the killing is just incidental i think, scully, to a far more basic need.   if aboah has no pituitary then his body would lack the ability to produce melanin itself, right?  well, when you examined him you didnt observe one single albino trait or characteristic.  thats what im talking about, scully, survival. and not just aboahs. i think that anomaly you observed is not just physiological, i think it may be evolutionary.  the lost tribe, a clan of sub-saharan albinos linked by their common congenital deficit whove adapted over generations by ....  somehow, aboah has managed to survive.  because of something somebody told me last night.  an african folktale.  its just another way of describing the same truth, right? i mean all new truths begin as heresies and end as superstitions. we ... we fear the unknown, so we reduce it to the terms that are most familiar to us, whether thats a folktale, or a disease, or a ...... conspiracy.   free cable. i dont know, the same reasons anybody comes to this country. liberty, the freedom to pursue your own interests.  look at that.   its a demolition site.   pendrell found asbestos fibers on owen sanders body. and you remove asbestos from an old building before you tear it down. it had to come from somewhere. 
 ow. 
 scully?  scully! separator at times, i almost dream. i, too, have spent a life the sages' way and tread once more familiar paths. perchance i perished in an arrogant self-reliance an age ago... and in that act, a prayer for one more chance went up so earnest, so... instinct with better light let in by death that life was blotted out not so completely... but scattered wrecks enough of it to remain dim memories... as now... when seems once more... the goal in sight again.
 somebody tipped ephesian off.  f.b.i. no!
 but that message was to the church of symrna. it's my understanding that your temple is the reincarnation of the church of ephesia.  are you?  let's start with her. where are you from? 
 does it bother you that he has other wives?  we were told that vernon's been hurting the children. 
 sidney?  sidney, can you tell me who the president of the united states is right now?  it's not just that. somehow i just knew. 
 come up with something? we found "sidney." voice spectrogram confirms that melissa riedal's vocal pattern matches the a.t.f. "sidney" call.  but there is a personality in her that wants to. we need a psychological catalyst. i suggest we take her back to the compound. maybe exposing her to that environment with ephesian present will somehow enable melissa to talk, or a personality inside her.  what we witnessed meets the criteria established in the d.s.m.-iv. the presence of two distinct personality states that would currently take control over behavior, including the "protector" identity, sidney. the inability to recall important personal information. she couldn't recall her own hometown. transitions from one personality state to another are usually a matter of seconds and are often caused by psychosocial stress. sidney appeared when we mentioned the children had been abused. 
 judicial precedents have established that dissociative personalities are responsible.  what we are responsible for is the potential loss of fifty lives. 
 because he wouldn't believe me.  you're safe with us, melissa. the murderer's not here.  sidney, you can all go home. you can all be safe if you tell us where they hid the guns. 
 i'm arranging for a therapist trained in hypnosis to be at the command center.  she wants to talk, scully. it's a matter of getting it out of her.  you, you were there, scully! you saw it. you heard it. why can't you feel it? how could i know about a bunker in a field where i've never been? you know how to find the other bunkers.  melissa... it's me, melissa. i want you to go back... back to the field.
 there is one way.  wouldn't you, scully? wouldn't anybody? 
 ghetto streets... shattered glass... bodies of the dead... i'm a woman... a jewish woman... poland. my son is with me. he is samantha.  in this life, she is my son. i see my father.he's dead in the street. he is scully...but now... he's gone on now... waiting for us. the souls... come back together... different... but always together... again and again... to learn. i can't go to my father.gestapo is standing next to him. an officer... he's cancer man... evil returns as evil...but love... love... souls mate eternal... my... husband... is taken away from me. to the camps. he is melissa. we're always taken away.i'm rising... i'm rising now... i'm rising now... high above... my body. above the field. my face is bloody. near the bunker... the federals are gone... my sergeant is also dead. he is scully.sarah holds me. she is sad.she is melissa. she lives... near... the battle... hamilton county... her name is kavanaugh. sarah kavanaugh...and my name... is sullivan biddle.she doesn't know... she doesn't know... that, that i'm waiting for her... that we will live again. we will live again. oh, god... oh, my soul is tired.
 my soul is tired. i want to rest. 
 dana, if, um... early in the four years we've been working together... an event occurred that suggested or somebody told you that... we'd been friends together in other lifetimes... always... wouldn't it have changed some of the ways we looked at one another?  why?  sarah... if it were true... no life would be pointless. 
 i would be saying that if i thought he believed in revelations in its entirety... but he hid the weapons.  if he doesn't believe that he can defeat the devil's army, he may think that by denying himself and his followers to the devil... by denying himself, do you understand? he will achieve for them the reward of life "forevermore..." and our worst fears will be realized. is there contact with the temple?  at times, i almost dream. i, too, have spent a life the sages' way and tread once more familiar paths. perchance i perished in an arrogant self-reliance an age ago... and in that act, a prayer for one more chance went up so earnest, so... instinct with better light let in by death that life was blotted out not so completely... but scattered wrecks enough of it to remain dim memories... as now... when seems once more... the goal in sight again.
separator spirit possession or demon possession. while these kinds of extraordinary mental states have been well documented throughout history, theyve been much maligned, rightly or wrongly, and havent held up in court well as a criminal defense.  yes, i believe we have.  ive heard of it.  what what was the date of ah, dr. lloyds prescription?   wow.  an addiction in other words.  how many of these procedures would you say dr. lloyds performed?  and not one fatality.  everybodys doing it, so i hear.   what do you suppose these are?  these five marks on your brand new state of the art floor?  they look to me like they were burned or scorched. 
 in the shape of a pentagram.  im not a doctor , scully, but youve got to be pushing pretty hard to mistake a beer belly for a bald head not to mention door number three. 
 its amazing that no one saw him in time to stop him.  i dont think its just a simple possession, scully. i think its more like sorcery or black magic or something like that. 
  excuse me, what kind of procedure is that up there?   are you aware that dr. lloyd is claiming he was possessed during the incident?  uh huh.  
 yeah. a videotape.  this videotape of the operation shows that the five marks delineating the pentagram were in evidence prior to the patients death.  which only underscores the strangeness. a sane man acting under his own volition could never perform such an act. look.  there.  i dont know. a pentagram is supposed to be a symbol of protection and positive power used to control the elemental forces.  yeah, but it does make sense that - that witchcraft or black magic would find a theatre in a place like this, preying on the weak and vainglorious.  maybe there is. what was that, uh, prescription that dr. lloyd was taking?  no, the stomach antacid. read me what its made from.  belladonna. its also known as witchs berry thats an herb used in hexing rituals.  yeah, just one the one dr. lloyd was taking.   you jest, scully, but theres a good chance that this hex or ritual or whatever it is, may not be finished. did you examine the victim?  i found something else on the videotape.  right there. 
 i dont know, but the orientation of the points describes a pentagram again. see.  thats the same prescription dr. lloyd was taking.  it appears weve interrupted a *gathering.*  were any of you here at the time?  have you spoken with her?  probable cause.  probably not tax returns. i want to speak to her.;  i need to speak to her ...   dr, franklyn?  i came by to see if you were okay.  looks like she took a pretty good shot at you.   nothing that a little plastic surgery wont fix up though, huh?  do you have any uh, idea why she might have attacked you?  she wouldnt have known that.  ah, we have reason to believe that shes a practitioner of ritual magic.  a practicing witch.  i think a lot remains to be proven.  (turning from mirror) come in, its open. (scully enters.) god, you look tired.  cause of death?  you ever seen anything like that?  she would have died long before she yacked them up on the driveway. unless, of course she didnt ingest them at all, which would fit with the phenomenon called allotriophagy.  (showing her book) yeah, the spontaneous vomiting or disgorgement of foul or strange objects usually associated with someone possessed.  well, according to this book people throughout history have coughed up all kinds of things from cue balls to butchers knives without any explanation of how they got there.  rebecca waites house. its the same place i got this. (crosses to desk and picks up a calendar) this calendar was open to april. the 30th was marked by a symbol that youre familiar with by now? (marked with a pentagram and word "roodmas")  its one of the four greater witches' sabbaths, there seasonal high holy days according to that book over there, its also known as "roodmas." its also the birth date of the first victim. (thumbs through calendar) now july 31st, is also marked with a pentagram. this coincides with "lammas", another one of the witches' sabbaths. its also the birth date of the second victim.  no, no, remember, i said the pentagram is a - is a protective symbol. i think rebecca waite was trying to save those patients. i think she knew that they were in danger.  i think she knew something about him and i think we should find out what that is before he goes back to work. (scully considers.) when is that patient scheduled?  were looking for dr. shannon. 
 "mistakes?" like those patient deaths ten years ago?  there were five deaths?  what was his name?  do you have a file on him?  all right, im going to need that and the files on those patient deaths ten years ago.  dr. clifford cox, birth date july 7th 1939, now can you take that photo and run it through the cosmetic surgery program i saw on this computer?  ten years ago, four patients died. like the recent victims, their birth dates all match the witches' sabbaths. except dr. cox.  maybe, maybe not.  okay, now this software was created to give patients an idea of their projected result, right?  vanity.  vanity, ... all is vanity.  now, can you move the eyes further apart and strengthen the forehead?  i know.   did you try his home?  no, scully. i think he murdered those patients so he could become dr. franklyn.   its not medicine, scully. its blood sacrifice.  the most potent offering in black magic. what if this man, having reached the limits of medical miracles, decided to stage a miracle all his own?  everybody wants to be beautiful, scully. dr. franklyn? 
 scully, come over here.  stop right there. look what youre standing on.  this ones different. its been inverted. see these two upright points here? they represent the god of lust, attacking heaven with its horns.  wheres dr. shannon? they said she was brought in here in an emergency?  dont let them operate on her.  hold them off until you hear from me!  to find dr. franklyn. 
 what happened?  then it failed. 
 what is this patients birth date?  on samhain ... the fourth witches sabbath.separatorseparator concentrate on this area, over here. right there. 
 i'm not sure i can explain, scully.  just give me a minute, scully, okay?  i keep having this dream. it's about a little blond girl.  i've had... flashes of it, three nights in a row. and last night, it went on long enough to lead me right to her. i need the chest exposed. i know what happened here. she was strangled. he used an eight-gauge electrical cord. he took something from the body post-mortem... a trophy. a piece of fabric cut from her clothes... in the shape of a heart.  no. i know this m.o. i know it from memory.  john lee roche. he killed thirteen eight-to-ten year-old girls. this makes fourteen.
 it was a difficult case, he was extremely hard to catch. by 1990, ten victims had been found scattered across the eastern seaboard. the earliest dated back to 1979.v.i.c.a.p. named the case "paper hearts" because of the trophies the killer took.all the victims were abducted from their homes. reggie purdue brought me onto the case because he thought i could get inside the killer's head. i concluded that, that we were probably looking for a salesman. someone who, who traveled around a lot, someone who could gain people's confidence, someone ordinary. turns out roche was a vacuum cleaner salesman. his job took him all over the northeast. he'd be in someone's home, demonstrating his vacuum cleaner. all the while, he'd be checking out their kids. he'd choose a victim then come back for her months later. we never found them, but we didn't need them to make the case. we had him cold on thirteen counts of murder. he admitted to thirteen. polygraph said he was telling the truth. but that always bugged me about this case. i always wanted to find those hearts and count them, see if they really added up to thirteen. i guess they didn't.  so you think that i've somehow had this information about a fourteenth victim all the time and i've been processing it unconsciously?  1975 is too early.  that would mean roche started way before we thought he did.  yes, sir, and he won't get out.  it's not a good job.  sir?  roche's car... roche drove a white el camino, scully. i saw it in my dream. 
 the cloth hearts he collected, he would have wanted to keep them close to him. for a traveling salesman, that means inside the car, right? 
 well, he doesn't have them in prison, the cell is searched regularly, his mail is examined. his car was sold at auction in 1992, put beyond his reach. it's worth a look, scully. we've got to find those hearts in order to count them.  not by me. helping him detail. something's wrong here, scully. "mad hat..." hey, scully. the camper shell.the kid said he took the camper shell off."mad hat." mad hatter.
 eight... nine, ten... eleven, twelve... thirteen, fourteen... 
 he had two more victims. 
 agent scully.  we found addie sparks, john.  sixteen victims, john. how come you only said there were only thirteen? 
 why don't you tell us about your last two victims, then?  you can gain one moment of decency in your life. you can finally let those families put their daughters to rest.  samantha...  "the magician" comes on at nine.  they're next door at the galbrands'. they left me in charge. no.not again.samantha, run!
 samantha! 
 yesterday, you said something about me taking it personally. why did you say that to me? where were you in 1973? november. twenty-seventh of november. do you know what i'm getting at?  what do you know about my sister?  he was there, scully. he was in the house. he took samantha.  a dream is an answer to a question we haven't yet figured out how to ask, right? something buried in your subconsciousness. you heard him in there, he knew something. he mentioned being on martha's vineyard.  well, how would he find out about that?  looking for what?  my last dream came true. scully, do you believe that my sister samantha was abducted by aliens? have you ever believed that? no. so what do you think happened to her? i don't know. i don't know what happened. i don't know what to believe. i just know that i have to find out now. 
 mom, i'm in the basement. i'm sorry, how are you feeling? do you recognize... these fabrics? either one of them?  just look closely. do... do they seem familiar to you?  just familiar. have you seen them before?  it's all right.  dad never bought you a vacuum cleaner, did he?  where is it?  sir? i've been denied further access to john lee roche. i've been told that order comes down from you.  sir...  i have reason to believe he can tell us what happened to my sister samantha.  i need to know. i just need to speak with him one more time, sir.  no. you don't get to touch them. they stay in the bag. name them.  how could you know what i said?  if that's true, tell me where my sister is. 
 what?  help me, scully. 
 it's not her, scully. am i right? samantha broke her collarbone when she was six. it was her left collarbone. we had, we had a rope swing out in the backyard. it's not broken, is it? it's somebody, though. 
 if that's true, tell me where.  you just want to get out of here. 
 this is special agent fox mulder with the f.b.i. keep your hands in your lap. 
 excuse me. 
 excuse me, i have to get by.  now!  go.  where'd they go? 
 go on.  and then what did you do?  that's exactly how it happened? right here in this room? 
 wrong house. my father bought this house after he and my mother divorced. this house is in west tisbury. the house that samantha was abducted from is in chilmark. that's six miles from here!you screwed up. you were never here. you didn't take samantha. no. no, but i think i know what happened. somehow you got inside my dreams.  i profiled you. i got inside your head, maybe you got inside mine. maybe some nexus or connection was formed between us and through that, you got access to my memories of my sister samantha and you used them against me for this.  and you're in the wrong house, you stupid son of a bitch! you were never here, you liar!  yeah, but you remember all the other details so vividly. that's because you watched it through my eyes... through my dreams. 
 you must have been one hell of a salesman, roche. first flight's at six a.m. why don't you enjoy your last few hours of freedom? come on. 
 he must have done it in my sleep, i had another dream. 
 he took the last cloth heart.  i don't.  yeah.  where's your phone? there was a small child on the plane. yeah, please put me through to your supervisor.  it's not your fault. it's my fault. sorry, scully, you were right. he was playing me the whole time. none of that really matters now, does it? 
 there's no reason for that, he knows we're going to catch him. he just needs it be sooner than later. he's going to stay in the boston area. it'll be somewhere nearby.  try to relive some past glory? is that what you're thinking? i don't know, what?  he's there.  alice, "alice in wonderland," he's the mad hatter.  that's where he got the idea in the first place. 
 he never brought anyone here. 
 are you okay, caitlin? good. my name is fox, i'm going to take you home.
 caitlin, can you do me a favor? can you count to twenty? can you do that? will you close your eyes and count to twenty out loud, quietly and slowly? 
 don't make this end badly.  how? separator we can't go in too soon. we have to be patient, it'll happen.  i've received receipts over the past few weeks for detonation cord, for racing and diesel fuel, and for 80 bags of ammonium nitrate purchased in cash in three different states under three different signatures.  i've received two new receipts, one for first and last on this storage space, and one to rent a two-ton truck yesterday. both with the same signatures. we could be looking at the next oklahoma city.  hold it. 
 i counted two men.  get out of the truck. 
 get out of the truck! 
 let me see your hands! hands in the air! 
 you son of a bitch!. 
 oh, come on, krycek!  i'm sure you had no trouble adapting.  you're full of crap, krycek. you're an invertebrate scum-sucker whose moral dipstick is about two drops short of bone dry.  then why don't you put a bullet in his head like you did that man out there?  the only thing that will destroy this man is the truth.   we can't help you krycek.  show him.  expose it for him, scully. 
 what did you get for halloween, charlie brown? 
 i need to speak with you, sir. 
 i need your authorization to provide a safe house.   this man has information about extreme-right militia that could save the lives of innocent americans. 
 but you have an idea, don't you?  is it valuable?  i think we'd all like to know what's in that rock. big dead end at the state department, but u.s. customs officials detained another courier on a similar visa in honolulu two nights ago. he was coming from russian georgia carrying some kind of toxic soil sample.  yes, which leads me to believe what's in this rock we intercepted are answers beyond the existence of extraterrestrial life. even beyond the conspiracy to cover up that existence.  why all this effort to get it onto u.s. soil? i think what alex krycek has given us is the pivotal piece to an even larger plot.  who wants to expose the same men that we do and will go to any lengths to succeed.  i'm with scully. we're on our way out to nasa-goddard.  explain yourself about what?  pull over here.  i'm gonna take a cab.  i want you to find out about that rock. call me as soon as you do. 
 we're going to walk out of here like nothing happened. if anybody speaks to us, you say nothing.  who is he?  yeah? scully: mulder, it's me. listen to me: whatever's in that rock, it appears to be lethal. what is it?  i think you better find out. i want you to get me an address in new york. you're going to have to go through the bureau to get that. to follow the pouch.  yeah. 
 i'm leaving the window rolled down. if i'm not back in a week, i'll call agent scully to come bring you a bowl of water.  what did you say to me?  you called me a bad name.  let's go.  

 june 30, 1908. tungus tribesmen and russian fur traders look up into the southeastern siberian sky and see a fireball streaking to earth. when it hit the atmosphere, it created a series of cataclysmic explosions that are considered to be the largest single cosmic event in the history of civilization. two thousand times the force of the bomb that was dropped on hiroshima.  it's been speculated that it was a piece of a comet, an asteroid, or even a piece of anti-matter. the power of the blast leveled trees in a radial pattern for 2000 kilometers. no real definitive evidence has ever been found to provide a satisfying explanation of what it was. 
 i think somebody found that evidence. and the explanation is something that nobody ever dreamed of. 

 looks like some kind of mining camp. 
 oh!  i don't think they're miners. 
 run! 
 i don't speak russian.  told me what?  i wasn't brought here. i came here looking for something.  what is this place?  how do you know?  to what?  what did you tell them?  what are you saying?  who are you?  why are you here?  what kind of experiment? 
 no!separator how long have i been lying here?  theyve done this to you?  what did they do to me.  black cancer?   who are you?  you helped them find the rock?  how many men have dies here?  is that what they say the tests are for...to find a cure?  what happened to the man who was in the cell with me, krycek?  im not going to die...  i have to live long enough to kill that man, krycek.  where did you get this?  youd rather suffer the torture?  where are we going?  ( draws knife from his pocket and breaks out of the line. he runs towards alex and knocks him into the bed of the truck. he punches krycek in the face, knocking our beloved hero unconscious. mulder holds the guards at bay with the knife and manages to get into the cab of the truck and drive out of the yard. the prisoners cheer as mulder drives away with alex still lying in the truckbed. the in charge man sends guards after them on horseback. the guards shoot at them, but mulder only drives faster. alex slowly wakes up. he angrily pounds the glass behind mulder's head. sensing that he is in danger, he rolls off the truck, landing hard on his right arm. mulder realizes too late that the brakes of the truck have given out. he is forced to crash the truck into a ditch. no russian.  tell your husband im sorry about his truck.  yeah.  why dont they kill you?  well, i have to go now.  theyll come looking for me. theyll come looking for you.  i dont know what youre talking about. what other ways?  you dont understand...these tests. the smallpox scar on your arm is some kind of identification. you have to help me escape. ill help you escape. you have to help me get to st. petersburg. 
 what is the question?   i get to put my arms around you...both of them.  its been a long, strange trip.  so have i.  boca raton?  may we come in?  scully. these people are test subjects. theyve all been poisoned.  everything thats happened....every death weve seen can be traced back to one man.  well, he isnt working alone.. terry edward mayhew. can we talk with you...have a little off the record chat?  alex krycek.  the man who set you up....you and the members of your militia.  you came into contact with him in north dakota salvaging materials from a missile silo.  what was he looking to build?  did he ever mention black cancer.  wait a second. you said there were...uh..two devices. what happened to the other bomb?  .  you want to know about anarchy? you dont tell me where that other bomb is and ill make sure you spend your prison time on your bigoted hands and knees putting a big smile on some convicts face.  where?  thank you. scully, get on the phone and get the license numbers for any two-ton trucks stolen in north dakota in the last six months. then call canadian border authorities and have them stop any truck fitting that description. tell them theyre looking for a bomb.  this has been a big setup from the beginning- almost perfectly executed. someone used krycek, then krycek used us...someone who didnt want that rock in american hands.  where would you put this rock if you didnt want it to be found?  go back to the refinery. see if you can find anybody who knows anything about that truck.  peers into the pipe. sees a box, but cant reach it. suddenly, the oil well next to him comes on, coating the ground and mulder with oil. he is still trying to reach the box.) cut to scully at refinery (hears a beeping sound. the bomb is about to detonate. he runs away. he is barely out of harms way as the bomb explodes. cut to scully, reacting to the explosion  why is this so hard to believe? when the accepted discovery of life off this planet is on the front page of every newspaper around the world? when the most conservative scientists and science journals are calling for the exploration of mars and jupiter? with every reason to believe that life and the persistence of it is thriving outside our own terrestrial sphere? if you cannot get past this, then i suggest this whole committee be held in contempt, for ignoring evidence that cannot be refuted.  then why are we here today?!? separator tres dias. muy incredible, no?  well, according to eyewitnesses, the death were investigating was preceded by a fortean event. thats a highly unusual or infrequent meteorological phenomenon also known as a transient.  yeah. witnesses described a bright flash about 30 degrees off the horizon, then a hot yellow rain fell from a cloudless sky. fortean researchers call these "liquid falls." black and red rains are the most common, but there have also been reported cases of blue, purple and green rains.  yeah. great album. deeply flawed movie, though. 
 fortean events have been linked to alien encounters, cattle mutilations, the kind of exsanguinated animal carcass you were just looking at.  i would assume so.  nobody cares, scully. the victim and many of the witnesses are illegal immigrants. migrant farm workers.  i thought it might be important to talk to them. before they migrated. 
 no la migra! no la migra! 
 no la migra.  its all right. we dont want to take anybody away. relax. no, its okay. tranquile.  we want to know what happened to maria dorantes.  does anybody know what happened to maria dorantes? did anybody see anything?   yeah, its a mexican folktale. el chupacabra, the goatsucker. its a small gray creature with a big head and a small body and big black bulging eyes.   did you see the chupacabra?  uh, how do you explain the uh, the yellow rain and the dead goat over the hill?  i doesnt make a whole lot of sense, scully.  i admit, theres a strong suspicion of motive and intent - but the amount of detail, the description of that chupacabra ...  local cops dont care, scully. i dont know who does. 
 find out what killed maria dorantes. take a look at her body.  try to find this man, eladio buente. 
  agent lozano? im special agent mulder. im with the fbi. 
 were investigating the death of a migrant worker.  im looking for a man named eladio buente. he hasnt been seen for three days and hes not in police custody. i thought he might be in ins custody.  so you are telling me that no one here uses their real name.  possibly the murder of a woman named maria dorantes.  yeah. youve heard of it. you dont believe in it?  ive heard that.  flash of light ... yellow rain .. maria!  maria!!! 
 a fungus?  and it can kill?  you dont think thats weird.  it still doesnt explain the flash of light and the yellow rain. and el chupacabra.  what does it look like?  the same fungus that killed maria dorantes?   did you find him?  agent lozano, this is my partner, agent scully.  im not so sure about that, scully.   im not questioning that, but right now eladio buente is the only connection we have to this death and to the death of maria dorantes, which is why i need you to spare any manpower you can to try to find him.  good. you should do that. while agent lozano and i try to find el chupacabra. 
 (pointing to graffiti) the storys out.  so they really dont think hes the chupacabra?  did you tell them about the fungal infection?  what will become of him?  hell kill him  so we got to find him first.  well, in this case, hell curse the man who doesnt. (voice) hey, scully. where are you?  (voice) responsible, how?  (voice) hows he spreading it?  (voice) i saw this man, scully. he was unaffected.  (on phone) youre saying its a new strain?  lozano, careful. (on phone) scully, ive been thinking. i know thats dangerous, but just bear with me. these fortean transients that the women described? they could have been caused by an object falling at a high rate of speed through the atmosphere creating a sonic boom and a flash of light. what astronomers call a bollide.  (on phone) created by a meteorite or a piece of extraplanetary material - of which two thousand tons falls to the earth every day. now - now this yellow rain. space debris could have fallen into a nearby lake superheating the water and sending it skyward. which would mean this is alien. (lozano looks at him like hes crazy.) (on phone) oh, and the fungus ...  (on phone, reluctantly obeying) kay. (hangs up)  eladio! (eladio runs, followed by mulder and lozano. to lozano) dont touch him. (eladio runs through a crowd of frightened immigrants, then rolls between the wheels of a moving truck. mulder, for once, is not stupid enough to follow.) i lost him! (as a convoy of trucks roll by, we see eladio lying in the bed of a truck filled with goats. mulder raises his hands in defeat.)  uh!  agent lozano! how does this man keep eluding us?  thats our man.  drop the gun!  apurate! drop it!  hes been here. (lozano also looks. the nut and candy display has been completely covered with fungus as has the dead store clerk lying beside it. eeewww.) eladio? eladio buente?  hows he going to get to mexico?  how are we going to find this man?  i dont know what to believe anymore, scully. these people sure love their stories.  he wont.   shes lying. if this man really thinks he killed maria dorantes, he wont be going to mexico.  the same place agent lozano and eladios brother are going. hes going to face his brother.  god curses the man who stands between two brothers. get on your cell phone and have a haz-mat team assembled. 
 i dont blame you.  at any rate, we arrived just after the haz-mat team ...   they established a perimeter, then secured the area. an eyewitness was found, but her testimony was questionable. 
  except on the body of agent lozano. we found him dead at the scene with a bullet wound to the chest. cut to: scully: and the fungal infection already starting to eat away at him.  apparently, the brothers paid this man for a ride to mexico, but they didnt get very far. cut to: skinner: so these men are still at large, carrying a highly contagious ... fungus, that can kill a man in his tracks? outer space, sir.   the truth is, nobody cares.separator it's an area also known for its history of racial tensions and hate crimes. rosenbaum, tawana brawley..  where?  has he been arrested?  very old testament.  interesting how?  risen from the grave to avenge his own death?  but you have your own idea.  a resurrection hoax.  yes, spectral figures are not often known to leave fingerprints. casper never did.  so there was a specific threat of violence?  we would be happy not to disturb the grave site if you can tell us who that man is.  maybe... 
 ...but it's hard to fault his attitude when you see something like that.  anybody delivering justice to a people who have known that kind of persecution and hatred, why wouldn't they protect him?  i'm not saying those kids deserve full prosecution under the law, but the hate mongering goes both ways.  i bet whoever published that knows the boys who murdered isaac luria. they might have a guess at who killed tony oliver, too. 
 why is that?  can you think of anyone who held a grudge?  did you?  are you familiar with this?  we think those kids are familiar with it, enough to incite them to the murder of isaac luria. 
 who?  a jew pulled it off 2000 years ago. 
 bless you. back room copy shop 
 yeah, second set of footprints, but the mud is too soft to take a mold.  looking for what? 
 that seems kind of redundant, doesn't it? messing up somebody you already killed? i think they came here because they were afraid. 
 afraid that man they hated enough to kill wasn't really dead. 
 look, there goes your theory of how isaac's fingerprints got onto the victim's body. what's that look like to you? 
 what's this?  a little bedtime reading? 
 fire! have they ever been known to spontaneously combust? 
 is it printed on any special paper or any special ink?  is there anything that distinguishes the particular sepher vetzirah from any other such books?  next to your husband's grave.  what do you mean, would have meant?  yeah.  i got him, scully. 
 who killed them, jacob?  hanging a man in self defense?  is it any better? they found your book, your sepher vetzirah in isaac's grave. 
 so, that puts you at a second crime scene.  the truth.  there was someone else in that attic with you. who was it?  then you're a liar.  he's not our killer though.  i think there was a second person in that attic, scully. weiss knows it too and he's protecting whoever it is.  no. somebody big enough and strong enough to knock me down.  stick around, this could get interesting.  to see a man about a burning book. 
 there's something you didn't tell me...  about the contents of this sepher vetzirah.  i want to know about the myth of the golem.  it's the golem that i'm interested in.  that's what i was hoping you could tell me.  combinations found in that book?  on the back of his hand?  what's the secret word?  i don't speak hebrew, i don't know what that means.  so the golem is an imperfect creation.  destroyed, how? 
 yeah... 
 who?  okay, i can be there in ten minutes. 
 a man with a mission. look at all the energy he spent spewing his hatred. 
 well, there's no way weiss could have killed him.  i'm not so sure about that. it's not a hoax, scully. it never was.  this is not luria. not really.  a ghost is spirit without form. i believe what we're looking for and what we're seeing here, is... is form without spirit. something called a golem.  it's kind of a man made monster described in jewish folklore. it's fashioned through mud and then animated through mystical incantation. 
 i don't think it was hate that created this, scully. i think it was love. arial, it's agent mulder. open the door. 
 she's not here, scully.  because it's her wedding day. hang on, i've got a knife. 
 will he be all right?  to find arial. 
 arial? 
 we found your father. he's alive. he's going to be okay. i know about isaac. where is he?  all right. come on. we gotta get outta here.  come on, arial. 
 stop or i'll fire. separator and these unknown craft. where were the majority sighted?  you said others. are any of them with you in america? 
 can you verify each of you worked on the base?  "credentials" 
 if youre mentioned in "thread three" you must have been there on gray october. 
 i made a last ditch effort to get out of it, but the bureau is holding fast to its federal employees vacation policy. (opens file cabinet) i havent taken a day off in four years, so either i take a week vacation now, or they start not paying me for eight weeks vacation time. i dont like it, but i got to do it. i got to pay the rent. i got to eat part of me cant help thinking this is just another way to get me out of here. but it is only a week, and youll be here to keep an eye on things for me, so... heres a few things for you to keep an eye on while im gone. (sorts through files)  what do you mean? (scully holds up his name plate.) (pointing behind him) i always assumed that that was your area.  okay, so well have them send down another desk and there wont be any room to move around her but we can put them really close together face to face, maybe we can play some battleship.  that contact that we met last night at the wall who had the distinction of being present for a first - - - that being you abandoning me during questioning. in the future, ill make sure that all those people being interviewed provide you with a multi-media laser show to keep your interest maintained. in any case his name is sevlov pudovkin. hes a russian immigrant with a doctorate in astronautical engineering. he and several other contacts worked at a military space center in the republic of karelia. they smuggled out reverse-engineered reports of two alien craft which crashed and were retrieved from the sea of barents.  at a high price, yeah.  thats your assignment while im gone. (scully is not pleased) i want you to run an ins check and a bureau ncic check on these individuals. (hands her a paper) all of whom now reside in the "little russia" section of philadelphia. ive also made arrangements for travel so you can administer eye-to-eye surveillance on their activities. (hands her plane ticket.)  (chuckles) what do you mean?  eenie, meenie, chili beanie, the spirits are about to speak?  so youre refusing an assignment based on the adventures of moose and squirrel?  do what you want. dont go to philadelphia, but let me remind you that i worked my ass off to get the files reopened. you were just assigned. this work is my life.  you dont want it to be.  well, maybe its good that we get away from each other for a while. (starts to leave)  ironically enough, its personal. its a... place i always wanted to go. what i anticipate to be a spiritual journey. i hope to ... discover something about myself. maybe you should do the same. (mulder exits. scully takes rose petal out of her pocket, looks at it, then places it on mulders desk.) oh, hey. scully, its me. (has trouble hearing) i-im just calling to see how youre doing, and uh... (xfiles office, desk with rose petal) give me a call... give me a call on my cel when you get a chance, just let me know where youre at....  scully.   nothings wrong. im just at that special place, and i wanted to share it with you. did you know that elvis bought all the furniture in just 30 minutes?   i-i checked where we always stay in philadelphia. i knew you wouldnt abandon me. hows the case going?  the philadelphia bureau? they dont know or care about the x-files. what are you doing?  how do you know?  okay, just hold off until i get there, okay?  of course i believe that youre capable, its just that in this case i need you to...  wh-whats the agents name in philadelphia?   what, have you got a date, or something?  y-youre kidding.  dana scully, please. 
 thank you. 
 welcome back. you look a lot better than you did in the hospital. and congratulations for making an personal appearance in the xfiles for the second time. (gets file from cabinet) its a worlds record. (he keeps looking for a response. there is none.) ed jerse is in custody at the st. johns burn facility in philadelphia. traces of ergot were found in his bloodstream as in yours, but not to the degree that should cause hallucinogenic ergotism. (scully sits) hell undergo psychiatric evaluation after recovering from burn trauma. comrade svo has been shut down, he was under investigation for having connections to my friend pudovkin. case closed on boris badenov, which is really a shame because i was thinking of having an "n.y." tattooed on my ass to commemorate the yankees world series victory. better late than never, hunh. (scully picks rose petal off his desk. mulder watches her. then rises uncomfortably and goes back to file cabinet.) the uh, field office in dallas is uh, receiving reports of the image of a missing child appearing on a blank billboard outside of arlington... (sits again, opening new file.) ....so.... all this, because ive ... because i didnt get you a desk?  yes but its m - - (scully looks at him questioningly. he starts to speak again, then sighs and fiddles with things on his desk. uncomfortable silence in the room.)separator pretty cozy. whod ever want to leave.  that would be one leonard morris betts, age 34. but it should probably be noted that when mr. betts arrived here last night he was sans head. he was decapitated when his ambulance crashed. he was an emergency medical technician for this hospital a very good one, apparently. slew of commendations, write-ups in the local paper.  somebody cold-cocked him and stole his clothes. he didnt see who. no alarms tripped, no sign of a break in. its weird, huh?  did i mention that mr. betts had no head?  meant to conceal what?  yeah, but why take a headless one and leave so many top-dollar bodies behind? security guard: sir? those video grabs you asked for? we found something. these are from the emergency room camera taken at 4:13 this morning. unfortunately, you cant see very much on these. what - whats all this stuff here?  well, if this is our guy, what did he do with the corpse he stole?  they combed the facility. where could he hide an adult body where it wouldnt be found?  well, then theres probably nothing there for us to find.  are you sure about this, scully? because if youre not sure i dont see that theres any reason to disturb all this stuff, just  oh.. i think i got the toy surprise. 
  thats his head. wheres his body? theres not enough room in here. maybe he didnt dispose of the body. maybe he got it out of here somehow.  i dont know. maybe theres an answer here. something we should check out.  maybe nothing, but its all weve got to go on right now. you should see if you can find a place where you can examine betts head.  check out his house. i know how he died. i want to see how he lives.  lived.  this one here,  thanks, ill lock up.   mulder.   what did you find?   like the security footage.   what did your examination uncover?   why not?   the head moved.   blinked or winked?   youre afraid to cut into it. scully, youre not saying that that - that its alive, are you?   but has it crossed your mind that that its not quite dead, either?   im standing here in leonard betts apartment. whoever we saw in those video grabs, his clothes are strewn all over the floor. he made himself at home. maybe he was home.   yeah.   yeah.   well, im gonna call the local pd and have them put the building under surveillance just in case whoever it is comes back. ill be in touch. 
 michelle? michelle wilkes?   im fox mulder with the fbi. youre the person on record whos responsible for the disposition of leonard betts remains.  except you?  what do you mean?  mm-hm.  did you ever notice anything about him anything odd?  was he ever injured on the job?  oh, yeah.  no, no. thanks for bearing with my questions. i appreciate your time. 
 or youve got yourself a nice paperweight. (mulder laughs at his own joke.)  is something wrong with the image?  he had cancer?  could you live in this condition?  well, how do you explain it?  mmmm. mm. maybe were just seeing it clearly for the first time.  lets get a slice to go. ill tell you if we find it.  chuck did some of the pioneering work in kirilian photography in the us.  coronal discharge, life force the chinese call it chi. its an accepted fact in most eastern cultures.  it may account for the fogging of your pet scan of leonard betts head. (burks is developing photo.) (pointing at picture for scully) chuck, would you believe that this mans head had been decapitated?  way. (to scully) are we happy with the results? (later, mulder and scully leave the lab.) i dont know about you, scully, but those sure as hell looked like shoulders to me.  what if it proves that leonard betts is alive, somehow?  you said that betts tissue was riddled with cancer. now what is cancer but normal cells growing rapidly out of control usually caused by some damage to their dna.  well, let me tell you. what if there was a case where the cancer was not caused by damaged dna where the cancer was not a destructive or an aggressive factor, but was rather the normal state of being?  what if this mans life force his chi, whatever you want to call it, somehow retained a blueprint of the actual man himself? guiding rapid growth not as cancer, but as regeneration?  the fluid that i found in betts bathtub was povidone iodine. its often used by lab researchers on reptiles and amphibians to aid regeneration. we both know salamanders have grown entirely new limbs regenerated.  worms. you cut a worm in half, you get two.  im just saying its not unheard of in nature, thats all.  well, maybe betts is trying to protect his secret. (scullys cell phone rings.) who?  (thinking) huh. scully. (elaine reenters.) do you know if your son ever used any other names for himself?  when did your son die?  (to scully) confused yet?  (holding up the thumb bag) siskel or ebert? whats the story?  why is that?  betts was here, scully. she must have discovered that and then he had to kill her to protect his secret.  do you know how this man escaped? he tore off his thumb because he knew he could re-grow another one.  but is it unimaginable? is betts ability to regenerate any greater a leap forward than our ancestors ability to communicate with language or to walk upright?  recent evolutionary theory would disagree. what scientists call "punctualism" or "punctual equilibrium" it theorizes that evolutionary advances are cataclysmic, not gradual. that evolution occurs not along a straight, graphable line, but in huge fits and starts and that the unimaginable happens in the gaps the gap between what we are and what leonard betts has become.  on the other hand, how evolved can a man be who drives a dodge dart? (mulder and scully open the hatchback of the dart and find a cooler filled with bags of medical waste. plaque says human organs for transplant. scully reads some of them.) (looking a little sick) you may not want to know. scully, theres a great possibility that leonard betts not only is cancer  snack food. wouldnt it make sense that evolution or natural selection would incorporate cancer the greatest health threat to our species as part of our genetic makeup?  do you think mom knows her dead son is tooling around in her car? (entering with large empty bottle of iodine) can you tell me what you use this for? its a pretty big bottle. do you get a lot of cuts?  scully?  no sign of him, not even a stray sock. just this.  yeah, and the key on his key ring with the number 112 engraved on it.  scully. 
 its betts.  i guarantee, scully, this mans medical records will show he had lung cancer and leonard betts was in need of what he had.  his partner said he had an ability to diagnose cancer. maybe his need provided a heightened sense.  yeah, for the second time. 
 you would have said the same thing about albert tanner.  six years ago. albert tanner dies in a car accident. his mother buries him. several days ago, the same man shows up as leonard betts. explain that to me.  you want to bet on that? 
 will the real leonard betts please stand up?  i dont think so, scully. i think that what were standing witness to here goes way beyond the regeneration of a thumb or a limb or even a new head.  because i think that the fiery crash that killed this man was a ruse, a decoy and that this man lying here is actually still at large. the only person connected with betts who knows his secret is his mom. if were going to get him, itll be through her. 
 get out of the truck!  get out of the truck!   you guys get in here. 
 three guesses what was removed. he did this to her and then he called an ambulance. 
 betts is gone. he must have taken off on foot.  you stay with her.  ill call local pd and have them cordon off the area.   this is special agent mulder with the fbi. ive got an emergency situation in progress. i need all available units to 3108 old bank road. im searching for a murder suspect.  were going house-to-house, here. thats the only thing i can think to do. we got a chopper coming in, but until then id say betts has got a pretty good chance of getting away. if he steals a car or gets a ride, he could get away for good. 
  i mean, he obviously worked this thing out pretty well, scully, so if theres anything you can get out of mrs. tanner tonight, anything at all, at this point we dont have much else to go on.   what?  they pronounced betts ten minutes ago.  as near as anyone can tell. his moms alive though, mainly due to the fact that betts dressed her wounds so carefully. shes going to pull through, at least for the present.  yeah. its uh  metastatic rhabdomyosarcoma, to be precise. she was treated for it previously but got a clean bill of health about three months ago.   you did a good job, scully. you should be proud. separator  oncology? thanks. 
 scully? i uh, stole these from some guy with a broken leg down the hall. he uh, won't be able to catch me.  how ya doing?  what uh, what exactly are we looking at here?  a growth?  is it operable?  but it's treatable.  i refuse to believe that, i..  i don't accept that. th..there must be some people who have received treatment for this, we..can....  i understand. i assume you'll be taking a leave of absence.  last year agent scully and i pursued a case in which a number of women, proported abductees, experienced similar symptoms after having implants removed from the base of their necks. a woman in allentown, pennsylvania, named betsy higopian was undergoing treatment for nasopharengeal tumor. we just haven't been able to contact her yet.  no, we're with the fbi.  betsy was part of a mufon group?  would mind if we come inside and take a look?   hey scully listen to this.  there's two lines coming into this house. this one was lit.  ya but who and for what? 
 someone must have remote access to the system.  copying files. let's get a trace on this before whoever it is hangs up. 
 i'm going to check around back. why don't you see if you can get the manager.   scully..   you ok in there scully?   he says he's a member of the same mutual ufo network group that betsy higopian belonged to, that he was downloading files for safe keeping as betsy had instructed him to.  he thinks his life's in danger, he thinks there's a government conspiracy to suppress the information gathered in those files.  well he seems to know an awful lot about betsy and the other women in the mufon group you met in his house.  we can't.  i want you to listen to me.  about what you won't to admit to yourself, what you're denying.  where your cancer came from.  it does matter, if what you have is a result of your abduction and that abduction is something the government knows about then those are facts that should be brought to light.  but these women are dead.  if you won't listen to me then i think you should go talk to her.  if that's too hard for you then i think you should call an investigator. you have one remaining witness agent scully. i'd think you'd want to know what her story is. mulder.  where are you scully?  i'm at betsy higopian's going through some of those hard files before stuff starts disappearing, and call me an early bird but i think i've found something. now some of these women who have died, they're childless, and they've been treated for infertility at the clinic about 30 miles from here. penny northern and betsy higopian are among them.  i've made some phone calls and i've tried to get some information but nobody is talking to me, so..  why, did you find something there?  is there something i should know?  i will be right there. 
 i've got a gun pointed at your head. turn around very slowly. kurt crawford, we seem to be traveling in the same circles these days.  you disappeared with those files from betsy hagopian's, i called you at least half a dozen times. i got to thinking you're a liar, now tell me i'm wrong.  you think you can get access from here?  vegreville.   i need you to set up a meeting for me.  she's at a hospital in allentown beginning treatment.  they've taken a turn. a pretty big u-turn by the looks of it.  this is a file directory from a federally operated fertility clinic. agent scully's name is on this file, although i'm pretty sure, pretty damn sure she's never undergone treatment for infertility.  i don't know. it's just a directory for a mainframe housed in the lumbard research facility.  cigarette man.  i have no doubt in my mind he's behind this.  ya well this is different, this is different, i'm willing to deal now.  no, no i need that meeting.   he knows what they did to agent scully. he may very well know how to save her.  we are talking about agent scully's life.  how'd you guys get in?  what do you mean?  does it tell us anything at all?  why store something like this and why keep it a secret?  or a cure.  you guys ever been to the lumbard research facility?  well pick out something black and sexy and prepare to do some funky poaching. we gots to go.   you guys couldn't spring for 2 of these?  langly what the hell is going on?  boys we have a problem. the doctor that's treating scully's cancer's on staff here.   look i need someone to get to scully to get her to stop treatment. right now you're the only one who can do that. langly where the hell am i going?  langly can you hear me?  langley i can't hear you.  open the door. open the damn door!   you're hybrids.  you've been using me.  what objective?   i've seen this boy before. these boys were you.  and you want to destroy them?  what are these?  taken from whom?    what?   why?  for genetic hybridization, or reproduction. these women, these women are your birth mothers.  you're trying to save them.  langly i can't hear you.  you sure it's not byers?  langley help me out here, i don't know where i'm going.  'k langly, frohike i'm here open the door.  work faster. langly open the door now!  get me outta here! get me outta here now!  nurse, nurse! dana scully is supposed to be in her room, where is she?  no what happened to her?  well who the hell does know?  what happened to scully?  where is she now?    she gone?   i'm sorry. i know what she meant to you.  when i came to find you, you weren't in your room i got scared that something had happened..and i read some of what you wrote.   byers tell you about dr. scanlon?  he may very well have killed those women.  when we find him. scully something was done to you, something that you're just beginning to remember. you can't quite figure it out but it can be explained and it will be explained. and no matter what you think as a scientist or a doctor, there is a way, and you will find it, to save yourself.  come on back.  the truth will save you scully. i think it'll save both of us. 
 i want you to know that scully's doing ok. she says she's coming back to work actually.  i was calling to thank you for your advice about your chainsmoking friend. i think you were right. we have to know what he knows, we just have to find another way. separator he's here. i feel him.  don't take your eyes off him, scully.  not yet.  i got him.  i lost him. 
  he's got a gun! 
 i can't see him. i can't see him. 
 what if private burkholder's telling the truth, that he's innocent?  you mean there's no procedure outlined for an invisible assasin?  he passed.  yeah. i found his story compelling, personally, but then again i believe the warren commission.  mr. markham?  it's extremely urgent that we talk to you right now, sir.  there goes the neighborhood.  what's your "word" on this? 
 i'd like to ask you that.  he told me to pull this photo from his file cabinet. 
 he says that's who killed general macdougal. 
 left for dead?  when was this photo taken?  well, what if he's telling the truth?  maybe the war ain't over, scully.  well, given the facts of the case and private burkholder's polygraph test, this is the closest thing to an explanation that we've got.   well, there is that possibility, too.  what if he passes?  yeah, and more copies to distribute.  i thought she id'd teager?  because his name's on the wall?  they have his remains?  why go to all that trouble?  you say he just disappeared?  scully?  can we give mrs. davenport an eye exam?  by all accounts, the man we're looking for - the man she saw - has a knack for vanishing in plain sight. maybe there's a connection.  and how did she reach that emotional state?  i'm gonna see if we're really chasing a dead man. 
 yes.  this was all that was left of teager at the crash site?  is there any way to tell how the teeth were extracted?   can you tell if that was pre- or post-mortem?  well then this is presumptive, isn't it? a finding of death based on inconclusive evidence?  whoever signed off on this death chose to ignore the facts, huh?  is there any other way to tell?  general steffan, this is special agent fox mulder with the fbi. i'm calling because we have reason to believe that your life may be in danger.  that the person or persons responsible for the murder of general macdougal this morning may have chosen to target you.  based on a death certificate that you may have put your signature on. a death certificate for sgt. nathaniel teager.  listen, sir, i'm ten minutes away. i gonna have to ask you to trust my risk assessment on this and take every caution.  ok, do you know your driver, sir?  good. i'm gonna put two fbi agents there to escort you just as a precaution. they have my mobile phone number, ok? 
  mulder. 
 did you find out what caused her eye to hemorrhage?  scotoma?  well, what would cause that?  well, don't you think it's odd, scully, that she'd have a blind spot that she wouldn't, uh, that she wouldn't have noticed before?  thanks.  well, that might account for teager's vanishing.  oh, hold on second, scully.  it's mulder. 
 where are you?  all right. the agents that i assigned to you - are they with you?  i want you to call them into your office right now, general.  listen to me very carefully, ok? i'm on my way over there. 
 general steffan? general steffan? 

 call an ambulance. 
 the general's secretary had been in here organizing his desk no more than fifteen minutes before the general was shot. he never saw this card  and he never saw anyone go in and out of the office aside from the general and the agents assigned to him.  i was on the phone with the man. he was shot at close range in the forehead. i think he would have seen the shooter.  no scotoma?  i think it's beyond all our capabilities, but somebody's got to explain how a four-star general could be shot and killed in what is symbolically the best guarded military base in the country. 
 that's him. that's teager.  i did everything i could. i put two agents with him ...  that's correct, sir.  i think that teager has an ability - the ability to effectively erase himself from the visual field.  i think he can hide himself from human sight by manipulating something that scully has referred to as naturally occurring, a blind spot.  you might not be able to see him. isn't it true that american soldiers have reported the unexplained appearance and disappearance of v.c. guerrillas? i've read the dispatches myself. i mean, maybe teager learned something from his captors in 25 years of isolation. 
 parade or no parade, those men are gonna be vulnerable. the only way to stop this killer is to catch him.  by finding his next victim before he does. cross-town traffic's all snarled up because of the parade.  a man named teager.  then why did you come here?  a pow named teager may be back home carrying out death sentences against the men that left him in vietnam.  generals - steffan and macdougal.  what is that?  men employed by our government as spies and commandos and then left behind enemy lines to certain capture and death. the operation was disavowed and their lives were erased from the records.  are you saying that our government wants these officers dead? why would they ask us to protect them?   well, who's the third man? i need a name. scully. i heard what happened. they told me you saved general bloch's life. 
 they told me you saw somebody on the parade route.  you saw him, didn't you? you saw teager.  yeah, but you drew your gun, scully. you must have been a little more convinced than that.  i found out about general bloch from the same person who told me that we were never meant to save bloch's life ... or the other generals.  this case - why do you think it was dumped in your lap, unless heading up an anti-terrorism detail is all of a sudden part of your job description.  well, they knew about teager. they'd known that he'd be unstoppable from the beginning.  and us. given the nature of the case, they knew that you'd bring us in.  discrediting us in this case is only secondary.  to maintaining their secret policy of denial about pow's, which required silencing the men who made that policy.  no, no, denny markham may be the only man in this case who's telling the truth. but if you don't believe me, why don't you ask general bloch himself. 
 he won't reconsider.  not going out there would be an admission of guilt.  don't take your eyes off him, scully.  not yet.  i got him.  i lost him. 
 he's got a gun. 
 i can't see him. 
 teager's here. i saw him out of the corner of my eye.  where's general bloch?  we've got to stop him. 
 he can only hide himself in somebody's direct line of sight.  that's why he killed general macdougal and steffan at close quarters - macdougal in his car and steffan in his office. 
 get away from the car! he's in the car! teager's in the car! 
 get out of the car with your hands in the air! it's over, teager. come on out. 
 the pentagon is claiming that the man who was killed was a thomas lynch. he's a vet who's been in and out of va psychiatric hospitals for the last 15 years.  they must have gotten to him.  you heard him! we both did! it's happening all over again. they're covering the lies with more lies, trying to make him invisible. we've got to subpoena markham and general bloch, and we've got to petition the state department to release teager's body ...  why not?  don't let them do this.  so did nathaniel teager.  is that what you believe? is that what you really believe? they're not just denying this man's life, they're denying his death.  and with all due respect, sir ... he could be you. 
separator special agent dana katherine scully...  i didn't know it was your birthday, scully. 
 that's the way i like to celebrate them... it's every four years, it's like dog years that way.
 you're welcome. oh, i got something for you. 
 it's just something that reminded me of you.  two, actually. i made them into earrings. 
 read the back.  it's, um... 
 about what?  excuse me, sir. i'm special agent mulder with the f.b.i. is there any indication or suspicion that flight five-forty-nine may have been forced down? uh, you can clearly here the pilot say "intercept" on the recording.  no, no, but there was a passenger on that plane who was, uh, well-known to our government as an alien abductee. 
 yeah, a man named max fenig, a multiple abduction victim, what's known as a repeater. 
 he'd predicted the accident, and from the sound of the tape, the plane may have been forced down.  i'm hesitant to speculate.  yes, sir.  fenig, and there may be people who want to cover up this evidence. 
 no, sir.  i think we all share the same goal here, sir, and that's to find out what caused that plane to crash.  where's the plane? 
 but not to max fenig. 
 no, he was on this flight, scully, i'm sure of that.  i don't know... but maybe that one man's life was worth sacrificing a hundred-and-thirty-three others. 
 is that a hand? is that a watch? what does it read?  so does this one. what are they listing as the time of the crash? 
 that's nine minutes difference.  nine minutes, scully. do you remember the last time you were missing nine minutes? 
 yeah, something just occurred to me.  i don't think we're going to find max fenig after all.  yeah, but i'm beginning to doubt whether he finished this flight with the rest of the passengers.  this man's name was larold rebhun. the manifest has him listed in seat thirteen-d, which is the aisle seat right here.my guess is that max fenig was in thirteen-f, window seat.but the manifest has the passenger listed as a... you think max was carrying plutonium?  what would max be doing with that?  so... what caused this crash?  you want to know what i think, scully? i'm going to tell you. i think max was abducted. sucked right out of this door at twenty-nine thousand feet. the burns we're seeing are a result of that abduction. and all the evidence will point to this conclusion but it will be dismissed because of it's improbability, it's unthinkability.  the crash of flight five-forty-nine will go unsolved unless we find a way to prove it. and when max is returned, he's going to tell us exactly the same story unless someone gets to him first.  you're positive of this?  there's still no explanation for this crash. 
 and?  in other words, there's still no explanation for what brought this plane down.  they're not able to, or they're not willing to?  because there are no facts, scully. what they're telling you, what they're going to report, they're the opposite of the facts. a claim to ignorance of the facts. claimed steadfastly, ignorance becomes as acceptable as the truth.  that there is not one wristwatch on any of those bagged bodies. all of the wristwatches have been stolen.  these men, no. these men are trained to identify moving parts. hydraulics, electronics. they're trained to reconstruct those parts and the past and arrive at the present. but they can't do that because somebody has stolen the past from them. nine minutes of it. nine minutes that became a lifetime for those passengers, and now for their families. someone has got to figure out what happened in those nine minutes. somehow, we've got to get them back. louis frish?  i'm agent mulder. this is agent scully. were you in the tower that night?  did flight five-forty-nine show up on your radar?  did you establish radio contact with them?  would there be a record of five-forty-nine on your log?  what was their response?  about nine minutes. 
 wasn't the initial report that there was no radar confirmation of the crash?  sharon graffia?  yeah. 
 does your policy cover the acts of extraterrestrials?  okay, scully, hit me with your best shot. what do you think happened here?  it looks an awful lot to me like this place fell from twenty-nine thousand feet.  was abducted, just like max. maybe it runs in the family. 
 you're the experts. why don't you bring your team down here and work it out?  yeah, coming up with all that inconclusive evidence.  why not?  then what caused that?  but it did. 
 hey, scully, it's me. i, i just realized something. the, the voice of the air-traffic controller, i've heard it before.  no, i know, i know, i know, i know, i just need you to come over and listen to this right now, okay?  there seems to be more than a little discrepancy. what you've been told, what you've been led to believe, was built upon a lie that sergeant frish was asked to perpetuate, along with sergeant gonzales, who is now dead.  and so do we.  the military is working to cover up that evidence.  unless the aircraft that was fired on never appeared on his radar screen. a third, unidentified aircraft that engaged the civilian jet which the sergeant never saw.  shot down by the intercept aircraft, which, in turn, may have caused the crash of flight five-forty-nine, which means that the cause of this crash is not here in this hangar, but is out there somewhere at a second crash site.  no, they didn't know to look for that. they didn't know about a second aircraft, except the military. which means that this man's life is in danger because he can put the pieces together. 
 hold on. 
 louis, help me out.  is he going to see us?  we're not going to make it. 
 scully! louis! i want to ask you something. this is where flight five-forty-nine went down. as far as you know, there's been no substantiation of a second crash site? what if that's because there is no second crash site, because that second aircraft never fell to the ground? it came down somewhere around here. yeah.  possible? are you okay taking sergeant frish back to d.c.? yeah.  as soon as i know. i saw the sign. are you bearfeld? i stopped by your place. nobody was home.  fox mulder. i'm with the f.b.i. 
 what's going on out there?  where?  can you show me? no, no, no. i need you to take me.
 over there. how deep is it here? not exactly.  once, i, uh... i got a quarter off of the deep end at the "y" pool. 
separator hey, scully. you come to spring me from the joint? 
 about what? the big old misunderstanding? 
 so all of a sudden, they just decide to take responsibility for the crash of flight five-forty-nine?  the facts? have you heard their cover story? that the control tower gave bad coordinates to a fighter pilot, causing him to collide with flight five-forty-nine over military airspace? 
 so they're saying the tower put those jets on a collision course.  and realizing his guilt, sergeant frish's fellow officer put a gun to his head. 
 then they could conveniently lay the blame on a dead man. 
 this, uh... second plane... they say it's a military fighter?  you believe that story, scully? 
 you believe i got this from an f-fifteen eagle?  at the second crash site, in about fifty feet of water at the bottom of sacandaga lake.  mm-hmm. i followed a trail of bubbles down to the wreckage, but it didn't look like anything that might take off from an air force base.  what collided with flight five-forty-nine was a ufo shot down by the military, taking the passenger plane right along with it. 
 why not?  according to who?  how do you know he's not lying?  what information?  max fenig's sister?  well, who is she?  why would she lie?  h, how?  wait, scully, scully. 
 it's got to be for the truth. if we owe them anything, it's to make sure of that. excuse me, sir, max fenig?  thanks. remember this place? you have to admit, the man had an enduring sense of style.  what do you mean? 
 hmmm, beans and weinies. 
 something to explain what max was doing on that plane... what he was coming to show me or tell me.  max is the key to all this. he knew that plane was in danger even before it took off, before it entered military airspace. how would he know that? and what would be worth taking that risk?
 i left a bag here.  short bag, tall bag. i, i don't remember. little bag, i think.
 i'm a federal officer. i need a security entrance to the terminal. 
 mulder. 
 i'm at the airport in syracuse, new york. whatever is it that max had, i have it now. 
 luck.  well, what is it? 
 well, i'm going to let you know in a minute.  what's that? i'm having trouble hearing you on the phone here.  no, hold on a second, i'm going to tell you what it looks like. 
 hold on a second. 
 it looks like a small superstructure with three circular pieces inside. it's hard to tell on an x-ray, hold on. 
 more people are trying to get their hands on this thing than a "tickle-me elmo" doll. i'm getting on a flight. 
 i think it's five-oh-one. yeah. i'm going to need a ride when i get there.
 thanks. can i give you this? thanks. 
 no, go ahead. 
 it's all right.  there's a weapon pointed at you right now. if i shoot you at this range, it wouldn't just hit you in the leg. if you so much as raise your arms off that armrest, i'm going to test that theory.  i won't.  a pretty lady comes around with honey-roasted peanuts?  what if the pilot can't get control of the plane? then you die too.  i'm sure all the other passengers on this plane would appreciate dying for your noble philosophy.  what is this? 
 it's an alien energy source, isn't it? what is it, cold fusion? over-unity energy? what could be worth killing all those passengers on flight five-forty-nine?  i'm going to see you pay for that error... along with you and your employer and the government that finances its contracts. i want you to stand up very slowly and move to the back of the plane. we're going to go to the bathroom. move.
 hey, scully, it's me.  i'm standing outside an airplane bathroom where i've got the man who shot pendrell locked up. 
 yeah, and it looks like i'm going to miss the in-flight movie. something starring steve guttenberg.  uh, yeah. everything's going according to plan, but i think you should alert skinner anyway, just in case. i don't want to take any chances of getting this guy off the plane.and i don't think you do either. hey, scully. 
 my watch just stopped. 
 excuse me. i'm a federal agent. i want you to listen to me very carefully. this plane is about to be intercepted. intercepted, engaged and boarded. i want you to tell the captain to initiate evasive maneuvers immediately. 
 drop the bag! drop the bag! drop it! hey! let it go!let it go!
 no, i think you, you should consider yourself the sole curator of the max fenig rolling multimedia library and archive, and you should probably get tax-exempt status as soon as you can. this stuff could be worth something someday.  you thinking about pendrell?  i just thought it was a pretty cool keychain. 
separator his name was lucas menand, a post-doctoral fellow at mit. he was a bright and promising researcher, a life dedicated to science cut short by an unfortunate bus accident.  he claims that menand was pushed, by a suspect identified as jason nichols , an associate professor of biology as well as menand's academic advisor.  hmmm ... sounds like a motive, doesn't it?  would you like to hear his alibi? 
 well, he goes on to tell a pretty convincing narrative and to give a rather detailed description of the old man.  well, not when campus security picked him up.  minutes before the accident, according to jason nichols. packed into a security vehicle, trying to warn nichols even as he was being hauled away.  no.  can't.  he's dead.  have you ever seen a body in such an advanced hypothermic state?  where was he found?  you mean he's actually getting colder.  so what's your medical opinion, scully?  well, you see what happens when you drink and drive?  maybe we should ask jason nichols if he can explain this.  we'll just hope that he keeps until thanksgiving. yeah. special agent mulder.  is that your girlfriend?  thanks for seeing me. i know your attorney advised you against it, so i appreciate it.  yeah, people out there looking for him.  i'm sure you know that the man who allegedly detained the man you described is now dead.  well, not unless, uh, you're capable of killing a man by flash freezing him.  the security officer who's now in the morgue has a body temperature a little south of frosty the snow man.  do i think what's funny?  does this have something to do with you and lucas menand?  he threatened your life?  how'd he do that?  had you?  was lucas menand up for the same grant? 
 and what research would this grant have funded?  oh! excuse me.   mulder. 
 no, i'm right in the middle of it.  security officer?  i just spoke with the bellman who brought up the luggage.  the iceman cometh. dr. yonechi was accompanied by a man in his seventies. it's a description confirmed by the desk clerk. they're working with a composite artist on a sketch right now.  it sounds like that.  yeah, but what if he's being set up?  just about anybody who's up for that grant money could.  what is it?  a lethal injection?  no, there's somebody i want to talk to first. lisa ianelli? i'm sorry, i didn't mean to startle you.  yeah. you may remember me from this afternoon. i spoke with jason.  not any more, apparently.  in his heated hotel room.  why not?  well, if he's already dead, then he's got nothing to lose.  scully, look at his temperature. 
 i think the real question is how somebody could have had access to a compound that doesn't exist.  you say he followed you off the bus?  and you were on your way to see jason?  that's what he can't tell anyone?  scully?  it doesn't really makes sense, scully. why would he threaten her if he's the one who's protecting her secret.  with a medical instrument?  well what if it's not a murder weapon? i'm just speculating, but what if it was designed for some other purpose? 
  tell the unit to keep watch until we get there.  make sure she gets home safely. 

 federal agents, sir, open the door. 
 hotel manager says he's been living here for five days.  hey, look at this. 
 and what's the occasion?  or something that never happened. 
 in a future that somebody is trying like hell to prevent from happening.  think about it, scully. if lucas menand never gets hit by the bus, his complaint gets heard before the grant committee. jason nichols loses his funding and he never gets to collaborate on his research with dr. yonechi. therefore, this photograph never gets taken because this celebration never happens.  the old man couldn't save lucas menand, so he had to kill dr. yonechi.  at least five years in the future, when they first synthesized the freezing compound successfully.  let's take the stairs. 
 only because the old man brought it back with him.  from when may be the real question.  unless you have a better explanation for how he knew exactly when and how lucas menand was gonna be killed, why jason nichol's fingerprints are inside that patrol car, and how he knew lisa ianelli's secret.  jason nichols. although common sense may rule out the possibility of time travel, the laws of quantum physics certainly do not. in case you forgot, that's from your graduate thesis.  you were a lot more open-minded when you were a youngster.  well, there's one sure to prove that theoretical possiblity.  show this photograph to lisa ianelli and ask her if it was ever taken. 
 jason.  i arranged for your bail.  well, that's why i'm here. something's happened to her.  i think it's something you should see for yourself. she's at the medical research facility. 
 yes.  look, jason, i don't expect you to get your mind around this completely right now ...  the man we're looking for - the old man - he's you. 
 if that photo is indicative of a pattern, you may be his next target. it puts a whole new spin on being your own worst enemy, huh?  not according to the photo specialist that i had examine it. as far as she can tell, it's the real mccoy.  jason, it's your story.  so was your rapid freezing agent until two days ago. now why don't you just consider the evidence as a scientist. how could the old man come to possess a compound that you yourself admit doesn't exist?  i'm not sure of that yet.  well, i think it has something to do with the practical application of your compound, though i don't know what that is yet.  physicists like stephen hawking have hypothesized the existence of wormholes and closed time loops, actual portals through which matter can travel backward through time. although, phenomena like extreme heat and gravity would render the trip lethal for any organism.  eventually, yes, that's what i'm saying.  that's what i'm hoping the old man can tell us.  listen to me, jason. i need you to get to scully and tell her that he's here. she's in the frostbite bay with lisa. can you do that? all right. 

 has anybody been through here in the last hour?  no, i'm looking for an older man, a man in his mid-seventies maybe.  do you work with him?  you have access to his files.  i'd like to pull up some information about his rapid freezing compound. 
  mulder. 
 did jason help?  all right, he should have been there five minutes ago, scully.  let me get back to you, scully.   what?  what do you mean, "whacked"?  jason!  jason!  she's alive, lisa's alive! don't hurt him! if you hurt him, we'll never know the truth! open the door. 
 no, and i'm not holding out much hope that they will, either.  they won't find him. i know what i saw, scully, and i know what i believe happened.  never? never is a very long time, scully, you said that yourself. "although multidimensionality suggests infinite outcomes in an infinite number of universes, each universe can produce only one outcome."  yeah, but i take that to mean that you were suggesting that the future can't be altered. which means that the elder jason nichols' attempts to stop his own research will fail, and that eventually his compound, and time travel, will be discovered. 

separator  i admit the photo's a little over the top, but uh, what do you think scully?  children born with vestigial tails don't interest you?  five times within the last three months, all in a town with a population of less than 15,000 people? i'd say that's a little more than a statistical anomaly.  i called around. they're already investigating. scully: so uh, so what else about this interests you? could it be uh... ... visitors from space?
 that's good to hear.  when you were admitted you said that the baby's father was from another planet. what did you mean by that exactly?  were you abducted?  but the baby's father is an alien?  take your best shot, scully, but i think there's more going on here than luke skywalker and his light saber.   what answer?  yeah?  meaning the father had a tail as well?  how would this happen?  birds do it, bees do it, even educated md's do it. all five of these women shared the same ob-gyn, didn't they?  and four of the five women, the four married women not including amanda nelligan, were on record as receiving insemination therapy as a means of conception.  so much for not putting all your eggs in one basket. uh, i'm special agent mulder with the federal bureau of investigation, and this is agent scully.   yeah, we're just here to find out what's going on.  why was it necessary to inseminate in these cases?  hey.  excuse me. i'm an agent with the federal bureau of investigation. i'd like to ask you a few questions.  scully, check it out.   oh, we'll get right on that.  yeah. like how'd you do it?  so you're saying there was romance involved?  well, if you're waiting for my usual theory as to what's going on, i don't have one.  a tranquilizer? i didn't think of that.  yeah, but when and where would he have had the opportunity to slip it to them?  those women don't look like the type that do a lot of solo drinking.   i found van blundht's clothes in the locker room. he must have walked out of here wearing the deputy's spare uniform.  i have a theory. do you want to hear it?  hey scully, should we be picking out china patterns or what?  what about what the sheriff saw?  conversely my theory goes a long way to explaining how four married women could mistake van blundht for their husbands, and how amanda nelligan could think it was luke skywalker. we've both seen something like this before, scully.  not unless they have trailer parks in space. this is something different. hey scully, if you could be somebody else for a day, who would it be?  so boring! i mean, wouldn't you even be tempted to try out someone else's existence for a day, live your life as somebody else?  well, maybe it's not, i mean everybody else around you would treat you like you were somebody else, and ultimately maybe it's other people's reactions to us that make us who we are. (they reach the porch of the house.) it can't be a dead person.  because. (beside the door are letters that spell "van blundht". as mulder walks past it, the "h" falls off. the door opens.) we were uh...we're with the fbi. (she flashes her badge) is this the home of edward van blundht?  we're looking for your son, eddie junior.  is this...is this you?  does your son have any other unique medical conditions, i mean, aside from the tail?  excuse me, sir, how did you know my name was mulder?  (giving chase) it's him! (scully runs out the front door. mulder finds the discarded red robe that eddie was wearing. he sees several men nearby - one walking a dog, one taking out garbage, one cutting the grass and one pruning a hedge. he picks up the robe just as scully walks up.) pretty spry for an old guy, huh?  well, whichever one he is, wouldn't you say he's a man with a secret? (he lays the robe over scully's shoulder.)(nearby, baboo is putting a diaper on her baby. the baby also has a bandage where the tail used to be. eddie, as fred, runs into the house and quickly closes the door behind him.) i'll check upstairs. (he goes upstairs while scully remains below. mulder opens a cabinet and lots of stuff falls out, making a loud noise.) i'm all right!  ohhh. it's quicklime. move back over there. (mulder opens the entrance to the attic, and amidst more quicklime, a body rolls out. the body has a long tail.) not so spry. you think the fall killed him? (back at the fred's and baboo's residence, eddie is still in the bathroom as the real fred returns.) so what killed eddie the monkey man?  what's the other thing?  what's unusual about that?  where did you find it?  um, could that somehow be related to his uh, having a tail?  what would be the, uh, purpose of, of this, uh...muscle? 
 could this be a "like father like son" kind of a thing?  uh, could eddie junior have, uh, the same anomalous muscular structure as his dad here?  well, um, if this musculature underlies the entire skin, then maybe it could be utilized to remold the skin's shape and texture. which would go a long way to explaining why we're looking for a man who can appear to be his own father, or anyone else for that matter.  check that out.   something about van blundht's mo confuses me. his victims were four married women who wanted to get pregnant ...   i'm here to see amanda nelligan? 
 what about eddie?   mulder. 
 excuse me, sir?  uh huh.  i'm sorry mr nieman, i'm going to have to call you back.  i was just here. where did i go?   there was a man. he looked exactly like me. did you see where he went?  thank you. hey.  van blundht ...  (holding his gun on him) think about it. get your hands up. turn around. (the guard complies, and his pants fall to the floor.) keep them up there. put your hands down now. (he handcuffs him) if it's not you, i apologize in advance.  pull your pants up. (dr. pugh comes out of the shower, wearing a towel. mulder whirls and aims his gun at him. pugh drops the towel. mulder's eyes drift down, then he looks at the two men.)(mulder has handcuffed the two men to a support pole in the locker room.) you're the only ones here?  i apologize. only one of you is the man i'm looking for. i hope. i gotta wait for some blood tests to come back and then i'll release the other one. so why don't you just sit back and relax? keep your clothes on, huh? (he calls scully on his phone) yeah, hey, it's me. i think you should get down to the hospital right away, okay?   hello? hellooo!! get me out of here! does it?  what did you want to talk to me about, eddie?  on what do you base that astute assessment?  yeah, but i'm no eddie van blundht either. am i? (he glances quickly over at her. she doesn't respond and stares straight ahead. mulder continues to fiddle with his hands and looks ahead as well.separator oh, you are home.  i was trying to reach you. i think your phone's off the hook.   is that why you're taking the garbage out at 4 in the morning?  i want some answers. 
 the unexplained death of a postal worker that somebody is apparently going to great lengths to keep unexplained.  these photos were sent to me by a detective who thought i might have a fresh take on the case, but when i went to retrieve them from my e-mail, somebody had hollowed out the files.  from his partner.  after he finished questioning me about the detective's death.  he was killed, shot in the head execution-style. his body was found near the precinct two hours ago ... possibly by the same person who forged my name to gain access to evidence from the forensics lab.  well, i'd like your help on this, sir.  agent scully is in the hospital.  she's undergoing some imaging tests. her, uh, her oncologist was concerned about some microscopy results that, uh, her tumor may be metastasizing. anyway, i, i'd like you to take a look at those photos, please.   want me to, uh, dump this on my way out?  all right. 

  her body's gone, sir. 
 the postal worker in the photos that i gave you. her body was stolen from the morgue last night, along with any other evidence that might explain how or why she died.  i'm sorry, but i can't. i'm playing catch-up here, and i'm already two steps behind. the man who impersonated me at the forensics lab last night, apparently he replaced a blood sample.  i had them run a test. the blood sample in the police forensics lab is b-positive, as is the postal worker's, but she suffered from a mild form of anemia characterized by a folic acid deficiency. the blood sample at the police forensics lab has a normal folate serum level. 
 no, but i do have a place to start. the gun that killed detective thomas - ballistics has identified it as a sig-sauer p228.  i'm having ballistics run comps on all weapons registered to federal agents and, uh, local officers. 
 sir?  i will. 

 sir? you looking for me?  first nations bank of virginia. 
 the bank is adjacent to the police headquarters where the detective was killed. their parking lot surveillance camera caught this image. that man there - that's detective thomas. this man in the baseball hat - he was identified by the officer on duty at the forensics lab as "agent mulder".  i'm gonna hand deliver it to special photo right now. what did you want to talk to me about? you were writing me a note.  thanks for getting down here so quickly.  a break. maybe even a lead. 
 i wanted you to get a look at this body before somebody tried to steal it. see these pocks and blisters? they're the same as we saw in the photo of the deceased postal worker.  smallpox. the first reported case in over seven years.  according to the coroner, an especially virulent strain caused by a mutated variola virus.  from these. 
 bee stingers and venom sacs recovered subcutaneously from the victim's face, arm and neck.  he was a forensic entomologist. i consulted with him several months ago about a similar fatality.  yeah, but i've never had any hard evidence. not until now. i think that's what somebody's gone to great lengths to try to prevent.  i can only guess. but i think that somebody is trying to engineer a method of delivery ... for a disease that has killed more people throughout history than any other contagion known to humankind. if you want me to suggest an appropriate response ...  how can we stop them? we don't even know who these people are, and we won't until we know the identity of that shooter.  hopefully, very. i've got one of the photo techs pulling an all-nighter on that surveillance video so he can show me something this morning. i told him that you'd authorize the overtime.  i'm gonna go over there right now.  so this is the best you can do?  i'm not trying to be difficult. it's just this is very important to me. i need to be sure. 
  i need you to print out a hardcopy of that for me. 
 put the gun down and move away from the desk.   i said put the gun down! 
 no. i do now.  is that the gun you used to shoot the detective?  how's it feel to shoot an innocent man in the head?  you're a liar! you've been working with the smoking man all along. you knew when he had my father killed, and you knew when they took scully.  i've heard enough of you.  i don't believe you.  give me the gun. 
 how soon will you be able to determine if that's the weapon that killed detective thomas?  so this is definitely the murder weapon?  in a sewer grate ...  ... around the corner from the crime scene. sometimes you get lucky.  what do you mean? separator hey, scully, take a look at this. 
 the pin setter. you see the way it's wedged and broken?  mr. pintero said the only way that would happen would be if considerable weight or pressure was placed on it from above.  no one's suggesting that you are, mr. pintero.  can i ask you a favor? can i get a soda, a cola, something like that?  thanks.  what is that look, scully?  what, you don't believe in ghosts?  sounds more like a disembodied soul.  except according to mr. pintero, this one was trying to communicate. it was speaking to him as if she was trying to tell him something. it sounds more like a death omen.  yeah. it's a spirit being that arrives as a harbinger of death. 
 this is the third reported sighting in as many weeks ... and as many murders. each time the victim appearing near the crime scene trying to communicate, trying to say something.  i don't know yet but, uh, ...  ... thank you.  if you hold on a second i may have an answer for you. 
 she is me.  written onto the wax - she is me - look at this! 
 no, not at all.  no, actually i do have something to add. i think that following the fbi model in this case will not only fail to turn up the killer but will undoubtedly lead to more victims and more deaths.  i'm special agent mulder. this is agent scully. we're from the fbi. we're here following up a lead that seems to have been dropped - a statement made by the proprietor of the bowling alley that ...  no, no, not the victim. her apparition, what the irish call a fetch, what is more commonly known as a wraith.  were there any written messages in any of these other cases?  do the words "she is me" have any meaning to you?  those were her dying words?  well who made that call?  what do you mean?  and no one followed up on this lead?  i'd appreciate that. hi. i wanted to ask if anybody used the pay phone out in the hallway there on friday night - because somebody called the police and reported a murder. 
 that was sloppy joe night.   anybody recognize this woman? 
  the quiet man in the back.  the only one who didn't raise his hand, yeah. has he ever been a problem?  do you think i could talk to him.   a wedding ring, yeah.  so what, he stole her ring?  oh, he switched it.  nice catch, scully. any idea about the psychology at work?  not ordinarily unless there was a more complex psychology at work, like pronounced mental illness.  i'm not sure if the killer is here, but certainly the person that made that phone call is, and i think his name is harold spuller.  no but he's about to. you made that phone call, didn't you harold?  did you say the words "she is me"?  have you ever heard those words?  have you ever seen a ghost, harold?  so why all of a sudden?  that outburst didn't come until after i'd asked him if he'd ever seen a ghost.  yeah.  i'm sure harold spuller is the man that made that phone call. but what led us to him still remains unexplained.  uh huh, and the other apparitions, like the one mr. pintero saw at the bowling alley.  oh scully ...  you sure?   scully? 
 scully, you in there? 
  they found another victim. a college student with her throat cut. just about a half block from here. 
 her name was loren heller, age 21. she's single, apparently she was on her way home from a bar that she part-timed at after school. she had a ring on her left hand, switched to her right hand, pinky finger. she was dead less than an hour when she was found.  no, actually it doesn't. harold's not at the home. he's nowhere to be found. his nurse locked him in his room after we left, but he managed to escape unnoticed.  yeah, but i think we should be the ones to find him, if only to find out what "she is me" means. 
 what?  you want me to drive you?  you're sure?  yeah, i'm looking for harold spuller.  suspicion of murder.  you obviously don't think so, huh?  you know where he is now?  he has a key?  did you ever get lane 6 working?  harold?  harold?  harold, i just want to talk to you. harold? 
 harold?   harold? harold, you knew those women who were murdered, didn't you? that's why you're scared. you're afraid they've come back to visit you. penny timmons.  missy shapiro.  michelle chamberlain.  what was her shoe size?  harold, there are people who think that you murdered these women. i'm not one of them. but i need your help for me to prove that. you think you can do that? i think you can. mr. pintero? i'd like to search the building for any ways in or out that harold might have of the bowling alley.  thanks.  i'm hoping it will become clear to us when we find it.  i think so.  choose a name. pick a name, pick any name up there.  200 game. that's not bad.  including the victims.  i'm not sure exactly, but i think that ...  hey scully. is it too late?  i needed your help on something. i needed your medical expertise.  harold spuller. oh, i'm sorry, i didn't even ask you. what did your doctor say?  good.  angie pintero, the bowling alley guy? he's dead.  natural causes. congestive heart failure. just keeled over right in the bowling alley.  no. howard spuller had a preminatory vision of his boss's death.  harold saw an apparation - what may have been angie pintero's disembodied soul at the moment of or just prior to his death.  because i was standing right there when he saw it.  no.  i don't have that facility, that kind of connection to the victims that would have made such a vision possible.  i don't know its exact nature but i think it has something to do with his autism ... that harold experienced a profound attachment to these victims but because of his disability was unable to express the depth and power of those relationships, so somehow a psychic or preconscious bond was formed that went beyond the temporal.  yeah, from the bowling alley, going back seven years.  no, but he does have something in common with those who've had the visions that is quite powerful in its own right.  well, they were all dying ... one of emphysema, one of cancer and now angie pintero.  well that's what i need your medical opinion on.  i would be very surprised. what is a death omen if not a vision of our own mortality? and who among us would most likely be able to see the dead? harold's at the resident home right now.  thanks for accomodating us again.  i understand.  agent scully's a doctor. if you can arrange to have harold's medical records made available, that would expedite the ... 
 tell me exactly what happened.  did he say anything?  i want you to call the police. ask for detective hudak. tell them what happened, tell them to look for harold down at the bowling alley.  i don't see that there's any way around that. sorry. 
 well, that's a superficial head wound, scully. he didn't mean to kill her or maim her. that's not the work of a murderer if you ask me.  maybe harold is sicker than we thought he was.  i think there's someone you can talk to about it. why don't you talk to his roommate and i'll see what i can do about finding harold. (looking at scully's hand) you're cut.  yeah, but why did you even suspect her?  why do you think she killed those women?  she is me.  yeah. they found in an alley a few blocks from here, face down on the pavement. they worked on him for twenty minutes but he couldn't be revived.  well, preliminary diagnosis is apnia - respiratory failure.  well, the paramedics are at a loss to explain that, but if what you're saying is true, that harold stopped taking his medications, then that could have been a factor in his death - at least in the visions that he was seeing.  is that your medical opinion? 
 what?   why didn't you tell me?  is that why you came down here, to prove that it wasn't true?  why can't you be honest with me?  is that what you think i want to hear?  you can believe what you want to believe, scully, but you can't hide the truth from me because if you do, then you're working against me ... and yourself.  i know what you're afraid of. i'm afraid of the same thing.  i hope that's the truth. separator samantha?  scully.  i don't know. scully: it' s almost 5: 00 am. is something wrong? i think so.  i think i'm in a... a motel room in providence, but...  rhode island.  i don't know. there's... t-there's blood all over me.  i don't think so. i don't think it's my blood. yeah?  i can't get warm.  n-no, but i, uh... i woke up on the floor with a pounding headache.  i think so. i don't know. i don't remember anything.  uh... no, what day is it?  i was in my apartment. i talked to you on the phone.  i've been here since friday?  no. no.  no. no.  yeah.  i don't know.  i don't remember that.  if there was a crime committed, i need to know what happened.  are these your keys?  well, then, how did i get here?  that's not my car.  who's amy?  no, scully. if i've shot someone, if my weapon's been used in a crime, i need to know.  i know you do, but it's my risk. are you amy?  and who are you?  that, uh, painting... behind you. uh... do you think i could take a look at it?  who painted this?  i know this house.  i don't know. i've seen it before. does this house have any special meaning to amy or david?  i've been to that house.  i don't know, but i've been there.  it's about 20 miles from here, on route eight. my parents had a summer house out there when i was a kid, in rhode island.  i don't know. it just hit me.  no. i remember what i saw.  i had a very vivid flashback to my childhood. except, i was there.  no, just that it was very real.  what do you think it was?  brought on by what?  i feel really good right now.  i think i've been here before.  maybe.  i'm going to check upstairs.  you mean, not without my attorney present?  i had those people's blood on shirt, scully. i was missing for two days. i have no recollection of my actions during those two days. there were two rounds discharged from my gun. i had the keys to this house, the keys to their car. do the words "orenthal james simpson" mean anything to you?  i'm a little confused.  i don't know. i, uh... i think i may have come here as a kid.  well, my parents had a summer house in quonochontaug, so...  i don't ever remember meeting them, no.  that's what i'm saying.  for now.  what's that?  no. why?  well, i haven't really told you anything.  and you're telling me what's in that bag is evidence that i'm a liar?  what's in the bag?  no. can i see what's in the bag now?  yes.  no. what about the prints... in the house? were they my prints? look, you're not going to get a confession out of me, because i can't answer your questions, because i don't remember.  you're a doctor, not a lawyer, scully.  no. only to my own ignorance.  ketamine? that's a veterinary drug, isn't it?  how would that get there?  scully... you don't have to do this.  what? that i was partying with a few senior citizens?  guard! guard! i need to talk to someone! guard! i didn't kill those people, scully.  from where?  but i was there.  and i still don't remember why.  and i contacted her.  but why shoot herself and her husband?  what was i doing there, scully, and why didn't i do anything to stop it?  i still need to know why, though. i don't know, but we found my car.  what was the name of that psychologist?  dr. goldstein? my name is fox mulder. have we met?  how do you mean, "aggressive"?  is this an accepted form of medical treatment?  but you had no idea--you had no indication she might have taken her own life?  that won't be necessary.  i have been here before. i met dr. goldstein with amy cassandra.  i think you're right.  i'm fine.  give me the car keys.  scully, i don't want these symptoms to go away. whatever's happening to me, whatever treatment i've received, is allowing me to go back into my unconscious. the truth is in there, recorded, and i've gotten access to it. what happened to my sister--the reason she was taken--is becoming clear to me, and i need to know that. now give me the keys.  to my mother's, in greenwich.  i need to speak to you.  you've kept things from me. you've kept secrets from me.  you told me that, when they took samantha, it was because you had to make a choice, but that's not how it happened. it wasn't your choice to make.  i wanna know what happened that night on quonochontaug, and i need to speak to you privately. you had some kind of relationship with him.  you know who. the man who worked with my father, the man who came to you that night when i was 12, and forced you to choose samantha.  yes! you betrayed my father, your husband.  how far back did it go? [slap!] who is my father?  just answer the question, mom. just answer the question!  what did you do to me?  you treated me. i asked you to treat me to recover my past.  you put a hole in my head.  it triggered my memory.  now i want you to finish the job. let's do it. i wanna remember. leave me alone, scully.  scully, leave me alone. it's... all falling into place.  no. don't try to stop me.  get away!  shut up! separator hey scully, it's me. sorry to interrupt your dinner.  well, i need your help on something. i was just contacted by doctor arlinsky from over at the smithsonian.  about something he found on a mountain in canada.  i'd rather not talk about it the phone, i just need you to meet me over at the smithsonian.  right away.   you're going to have to apologize for me to your brother and mother. this is something that just couldn't wait though.  he's a forensic anthropathologist that i've been in contact with over the last four years. several years ago he was involved in an embarrassing ufo photo enhancement scandal. but he continues to profess his innocence.  i'm not going to tell you. i'm going to let you decide for yourself. perfectly intact.  that doesn't make sense. there should be signs of gradation.   does that fit geologically?  who all knows about this?  if you're going to go, why not go all the way?  qualitatively indefensible. you go public with this nobody is going to believe you. you also risk never knowing for sure because the same people who bury the truth so assiduously will be in charge of its authentication.  and what do you want?  you think it's foolish?  you have no opinion?  what's that supposed to mean?  what about santa claus or the easter bunny? this is not some selfish pet project of mine, scully. i'm as skeptical of that man as you are, but proof... definitive proof of sentient beings sharing the same time and existence with us, that would change everything. every truth we live my would be shaken to the ground. there's no greater revelation imaginable, no greater scientific discovery.  if someone could prove to you the existence of god, would it change you?  then you accept the possibility the belief in god is a lie?  but what if it could be? wouldn't that knowledge be worth seeking? or is it just easier to go on believing the lie?  can you at least take a look at those core samples? tell me if they're a lie? that's all i'm asking. funny place to take a nap.   he's been shot. he's our guide? 
 they had radio communication. maybe it was being monitored.  someone's still alive.   get him some water. look's like he took a shotgun hit, but it didn't open him up too badly. the bleeding stopped.  we won't know for sure until we do a carbon dating test.  the piltdown man hoax wasn't uncovered for forty years until it failed the carbon dating test. and that wasn't even very good.  mulder... so you're saying this has all been orchestrated? a hoax?  you come by this knowledge how?  and just by chance, you run into agent scully?  why come to me now? why not four years ago?  and the thousands of ufo sightings?  evidence of alien biology?  the body that was found?  they would have known that the body would be carbon dated, that it would be proved a fake.  what do you mean?   this man is a liar.  ah...  arlinsky's dead.  what we had here was proof, scully, there's no way it could be anything else.  yeah, but, the ice core samples checked out. if the ice hasn't been tampered with, how could the body within be a fake?  do we know for sure that those cells are not extraterrestrial?  facts overwhelmed by the lies created to support them!  after all i've seen and experienced, i refuse to believe that it's not true!  what the hell did that guy say to you, that you believe his story!? 