 mulder, i just want to remind you that by not informing local pd we are in technical violation of state laws prohibiting contamination of a crime scene.  why do i bother? 
 what are they?  with what kind of weapon?  his bare hands? mulder, this is hardwood.  this kind of gouging didn't happen with anybody's bare hands. not without the use of some kind of an implement. what is that? 
 is it animal?  so the attacker never left.   mulder...  mulder, given the scenario that you just described, the rate of gestation would have been less than a day. it would have been about 12 hours, in fact. okay, forgive the scientific argument just for a moment but you're saying this was done by something newborn?  mulder, there isn't anything in the animal kingdom capable of this ferocity. ] 
 mulder, that doesn't mean that i can just accept your theory. 
 mulder, i know what you did. i know what happened to me but without ignoring the science, i can't... listen, mulder  you told me that my science kept you honest. that it made you question your assumptions. that by it, i'd made you a whole person. if i change now... it wouldn't be right... or honest.  we received a call that a man was killed here.   let's get out of here, mulder.  you weren't getting anywhere, mulder. it was only making it worse.  how do they know? mulder, how do you know? 
 oh, my god. gibson. sorry, sweetie. gibson? gibson? gibson, sweetheart? oh, god. 
  no. no, you've been worked on by some good doctors. they did a fine job with your stitches.  they should have changed your bandages, gibson. you've got some swelling and some infection and you've got a fever. why did they do this to you?  communicate with what?  mulder, this kid belongs in a hospital.  mulder, you can't just take him on some snipe hunt. he's in no condition. he belongs in a bed under constant medical care. listen to me. what i'm saying is in your best interest, okay? we have to take every precaution. we have to make every effort to ensure that nothing happens to this boy because whatever he is, whatever gives him the ability to do what he does, he's your scientific evidence. it's just like we said. he could be the key to everything in the x-files.  no, but what if he could corroborate everything that you're saying? this boy could be our last, best chance. 

 mulder, what's going on?  where are you going?  you're going to be fine, gibson. you're going to be okay.  we're going to get you well.   we have to run some more tests, gibson.  you're a very special boy, gibson. you know that yourself.   everything we were told, mulder.  you know, agent fowley's report to opr painted the facts in an interesting way. i hope you haven't been betrayed.  mulder, agent fowley's report states that the man you saw attacked was bludgeoned by an unknown subject. she makes no mention of a little boy who as it happens, is nowhere to be found. it would seem that her report protects everything but you.  i don't doubt what you saw, mulder. i don't doubt you. i'm willing to believe, but not in a lie and not in the opposite of what i can prove. it comes down to a matter of trust.  i guess it always has.  i'm asking you to trust my judgment. to trust me. 
 mulder, these are test results. dna from the claw nail we found matching exactly the dna from the virus you believe is extraterrestrial. 
 which matches exactly dna that was found in gibson praise.  no. it's a part of his dna. in fact, it's a part of all of our dna. it's called a genetic remnant. it's inactive junk dna. except in gibson it's turned on.  it would mean that all of us are.separator uh, virgil nokes? i'm agent scully. this is agent mulder. we're with the fbi. 
 no, sir. federal bureau of investigation.  uh, sir, this is just a routine check but, uh, we understand that you recently placed an order for 5,000 pounds of ammonium nitrate fertilizer.  excuse me?  yeah. well, as we said, sir this is just routine.   we'll be happy to help what?   mulder, we're not going to nevada.  no. sorry, mulder. we have a whole new assignment.  look, mulder, like it or not, humiliated or not, we're on domestic terrorism now and, yes, this is... this is a punishment but if we want to get back to where we want to be we have to follow orders. we can't freelance.  i think that the obvious assumption is that the woman was shot, regardless of what the police say. maybe it was a sniper.  captain, he may need medical attention.   patrick garland crump of montello, nevada.  i'm thinking while we're here i might take a look at mr. crump's wife.  there's no gunpowder residue... no carbon stippling. there seems to be no evidence of an entry wound whatsoever.  i'm finding what look like fragments of petrous bone embedded in the remaining portion of the auditory canal. in fact, i seem to be looking straight through to the osseous labyrinth or what's left of it.  may i?  there seems to be some kind of tumefaction within the lateral sinus. 
  oh, god. come on, mulder. 
 hey, you, out! this lab is quarantined. go!  mulder?   mulder, it's me. you know how to pick them, i'll tell you that. look, i have no idea what killed this woman but i have to assume it's communicable.   another body has been found just outside of montello --- same apparent cause of death - some kind of massive aneurysm or rupture.   and mulder, i've called the cdc. they're on their way but patrick crump may be infected. so you need to quarantine his cell and make sure that anybody who's had any close contact with him whatsoever has been quarantined as well, and that means you, mulder. you're to have no contact with him whatsoever.   mulder?  where are they?  where are they going?  roadblock?  all right. i want the cdc on-site. i want the officers making the arrest to be wearing level two or better anti-contamination suits. i want the car decontaminated. i want agent mulder and crump decontaminated. i want them quarantined separately.  okay, i want a thorough search with an eye to the usual disease vectors.  i think we're witnessing the same pathology here.  let's go. 
 hang on. let me sedate him. 
 dogs, housewives... whatever this thing is, it doesn't discriminate.  look at that.  hello! hello? 
 doctor?  hello? hello? 
 oh, no. it's okay, ma'am.  it's all right. i'm sorry.  it's okay. it's okay. 
  one deaf woman survives unscathed while everything else around her dies. why? 
 the pathology of this thing... it affects the inner ear and this area right here is ground zero. what if what we're looking for is some kind of a sound?  oh. excuse me.  scully.   come again?   yeah, yeah, yeah. read it to me.   take him at his word. let him through.   i'll take that under advisement.  lieutenant breil? my name is dana scully. i called in regard to the electrical equipment the navy is maintaining in the town of montello.  my washington office?  oh, i'm... i'm so sorry to make you run through it again, uh... for my official report to the, uh... to the fcc. lieutenant breil: okay. at 6: 17 yesterday morning during a test of our ground conduction radio system a situation arose in which our equipment experienced a brief power surge. that's what interrupted television reception in the four-state area. however, steps have already been taken to insure this won't happen again. the ground conduction radio-- th-that would be project seafarer?  sure, sure. um... would you happen to know what effect such a surge might have on, uh... on an organism... say, a... say, a human being?  theoretically speaking.   mulder, are you okay?   i'm just about to board a justice department jet... hopefully, i'll overshoot you.   i don't know, mulder. you tell me.   well, i think i have a loose theory as to what caused this.   okay. mulder, you know what elf waves are? extremely low radio transmissions?   well, seafarer has an antenna array stretching beneath the edge of patrick crump's property. now, elf fields have been shown to... to produce biological effects in human tissue inducing electrical currents, altering chemical reactions.   what if some overload some... some hum from this system could somehow match the resonant frequency of the human skull? i mean, what if it could induce a like hum that could... that could somehow exert a rising pressure on the labyrinth of the inner ear in a sense shattering it?   i don't know, mulder, i don't know. i mean... i mean, maybe it has to follow certain lines of force electrical or magnetic. i mean, maybe...   well, i think i know, mulder, but it's nothing that mr. crump is going to like. 
 get ready! 
 sir, agent mulder has been through a lot.  i'm not apologizing for this. because of his work, the dod is shutting down their antenna array in northeastern nevada. our participation in this case has saved lives.   right.   big piles of manure.separator what are you guys doing here?  what do you mean?  okay, where are we going? 
  i have ears. will you tell me what's going on?  disappeared from where?  i don't understand. what am i looking at?  the queen anne? the british luxury liner?  it was torpedoed by a german u-boat.  there's another?  so you're saying the queen anne just disappeared.  that's impossible.  there's nothing on here.  to get where?  he's gone out here?  what's happened to him?  well, we have to get help. 
 what do you need?   wait for me downstairs. 
  i need to speak with him.  is he in?  sorry, this can't wait. 
 sir?  i just received some very disturbing information, sir. i need your help.  sir, i couldn't waste time explaining myself to your assistant.  it's about agent mulder. he's done something incredibly rash.  he may be lost at sea.  you can't what?  this isn't for me; it's for agent mulder.  don't you want to know what this is about? 
  sir, this is about a man's life.  no, sir, you're out of line. i'm sorry, but i'm coming to you for help and i've got nowhere else to go. i would hope that after everything that we have been through that you would at least have the courtesy and the decency and not to mention the respect to listen to what i have to say. now, all i need is information.  you don't have to do anything else. look, sir, if you know anybody at the office of naval intelligence it would be of great help.  save your own ass, sir. you'll save your head along with it. 
  sorry. 
 i need a word with ad kersh.  assistant director kersh, may i please have a moment of your time?  uh, may i, sir?  thank you. sir, i need you to get me some information.  i am not a liberty to say why but i can tell you it is of the utmost importance 
 . i, uh... sorry. i shouldn't have come unannounced.  uh... it's nothing, really.  what am i thinking? what am i thinking? 
 sorry. 
  come on, come on, come on, come on, come on. answer the phone, mulder. answer the phone, answer the phone, answer the phone.   damn. 
  i want you to do me a favor. it's not negotiable. either you do it or i kill you. you understand? 
 no, i'm not. i'm a gun ready to go off so don't test me, spender. don't even think about trying to weasel me.   navy awacs slar 100 k swath. south-southeast of bermuda. i am looking for a boat, maybe a ship. 1939 luxury liner.  don't ask too many questions. i don't care what you do or who you do or who you have to grease, i need that information and i need it now. are we clear on that?  and, agent spender... if you're not back in a hurry i am going to hunt you down, and so help me god...    oh, god. 
  hello?   yes.   i'm sorry, he's not here right now. is there something i can help you with?  yes? yes, sir?  i was just, uh...  yeah, i was waiting for agent spender, he was, uh... i'm supposed to pick up a delivery from him.   that rat bastard! 
  stupid! 
  scully.  mulder?  is that you? no, i can't... i'm on an elevator. hold on, i'll be off in a s... hold on. 
  hello? no... i can't understand. i can't... 
 is it you?  how?   sir, what you've done...  yes. 
 yes. 
  yes. 
  yeah. 
 mulder? mulder, it's me. hmm?  you're in a hospital.  lie still.  i don't blame you. you've been through the wringer, i'd say.  you did something incredibly stupid.  you went looking for a ship, mulder. in the bermuda triangle.  hmm?  mulder, will you settle down? it's an order.  yeah... you're right. i did.  yeah, i bet you did. the boat that you were on was busted into a million pieces. and as for the queen anne it was nothing more than a ghost ship.  in your dreams.  mulder, i want you to close your eyes and i want you to think to yourself "there's no place like home."  yes? 
 oh, brother...  
separator (dryly) i'm all a-tingle. (they share a look) so, mulder, this supposed clandestine source who's contacted you how do we know that he's not just another crackpot whose encyclopedic knowledge of extraterrestrial life isn't derived exclusively from reruns of star trek?  for the past 50 years, classified experiments involving extraterrestrial technology.  mulder, it's the dim hope of finding that proof that's kept us in this car, or one very much like it for more nights than i care to remember. (mulder looks at her fondly) driving hundreds if not thousands of miles through neighborhoods and cities and towns where people are raising families and buying homes and playing with their kids and their dogs, and... in short, living their lives. while we - we - we just keep driving.  don't you ever just want to stop? get out of the damn car? settle down and live something approaching a normal life?  mulder.  hiding top secret test flights? (mulder looks at her) using technology from ufos?  come on, mulder, let's... (scully pauses as they all hear a rumbling sound. they see a bright light on the horizon that quickly gets closer and passes overhead. as it does, mulder steps away from scully and looks up in wonder at the bright light. the light passes over and disappears. mulder looks back down over at . morris, now wearing mulder's clothes, standing with scully. no one gives any indication that they are aware that something just flew over them or that anything happened.) (to morris) come on, mulder, let's go. (as mulder, now wearing morris's clothes standing in morris's place stares in shock, scully gets back into the passenger seat and morris gets into the drivers seat.)  i'm sure he's on his way. 
 mulder!  mulder... where have you been?  you got lost.  yeah.  well, sir...  we were following a lead, sir.  mulder. mulder!  what was that about?  "i'd give you his name if i had it"? whatever happened to protecting our contacts? protecting our work?  what is going on with you?  mulder, you are acting bizarre.   it's me. 
 what do you think you're doing?   we got the trace back on the call we received this morning. it came from a gas station pay phone off of highway 375 three miles east of groom lake.  and i'm thinking it was your source although i don't know why he'd try and impersonate you.  you don't think that we should follow up on this?   am i out of my mind? mulder, you are out of your mind! what is up with you?! i'm thinking about having you examined for mental illness or-or drug use or... or maybe a massive head injury! this is an x-file your life's work, your crusade!   scully.   uh... sir, i am...   sir, i don't know what agent mulder might have told you, but i...  i'm sorry. separator you did the right thing, mulder.  i've been telling you for years you should play more by the book, haven't i?  he said that i was willful, insubordinate and not a team player and the fbi didn't need agents that weren't team players.  two-week suspension without pay.   see you in two weeks. morris as mulder: dana? you suppose a home-cooked meal might ease the pain a little? say, at my place 8:00?
 wow. mulder. 
 i didn't even know you had a bedroom.  uh, no, that's okay. thanks.  oh!  mulder...   no, i don't hate it.  ,do you know what would really be fun?  you first. 
 you're not mulder.   "baby" me and you'll be peeing through a catheter. your name is morris fletcher. it was mulder who was arrested in the desert. he was telling the truth about you. now, how do we get things back to normal?  are you through?  or i just shoot you... baby.  what about mulder's source? the man he was supposed to meet in the desert? what about him? do you know how to get in touch with him?  and?  get going.  open up.   we need your help right now.  who, what, why. i need to know everything that's on that data recorder.  groom lake. outside area 51.  what's that?  he's not mulder.   we think the crash of this particular aircraft-- whatever it was-- resulted in a, uh...   shut up, all of you. if you guys want mulder back, get me these results. what is it?  all right, i want you guys to analyze that data. morris...  get your butt in gear.   enough. call me when you guys have some answers.  that is you in there, mulder, isn't it? 
  i, uh... i just got off the phone with frohike. they were able to download and analyze the crash data and, yes, there was an anomalous event that night.   well, that's just it. it's all about random moments in time... about a series of variables approaching an event horizon. and even if we... could recreate that moment if we could sabotage another craft... mulder, if we were... if we were off... if the event were off by even one millisecond...  something like that, yeah. 
 agent mulder has become ad kersh's new golden boy. he's been tasked with returning the flight data recorder that he and i stole. the son of a bitch confesses to kersh even more than i do to my priest. i'm just tagging along for the ride.  i'm out of the bureau. i've been censured and relieved of my position.  i'd kiss you if you weren't so damn ugly. 

 neither, if i do it first. 
 i've still got my gun.  wait a second, hold on. back up.   back up. 
 i don't understand. this-this place was burnt to the ground.  yeah... this place, two nights ago.  i need to talk to you. something's happened. 
  i have to talk to you alone.  mrs. fletcher, we have reason to believe that whatever event caused this to happen may be in the process of reversing.  only we have to be in its path when it happens. 
 come on, mulder. let's go. 
  mulder, it's me. i just wanted to let you know that we slipped under kersh's radar. our little field trip to nevada went unnoticed.   mulder, i'm sorry that your confidential source didn't pan out.   good night.   you're welcome. 
separator remember your truthfulness is important, mr. ginsberg and as a prospective federal employee, i will remind you to answer as honestly as possible. okay?   "do you, or have you ever smoked marijuana?" 
  "have you consorted with people who have now or in the past?"  ah.  scully.   mulder, where are you? i waited 45 minutes for you this morning.   this isn't an x-file?   you're in virginia?   mulder, we are supposed to be doing background checks not chasing x-files.   and what do you call rooting through his trash?   "we," mulder? i'm stuck with it. you're not here.   as host for his demon seed.   i saw rosemary's baby on cable the other night.   mulder...   mulder, i think i found what you're looking for. i've been up all night going over the medical charts on the weinsider baby.   the prenatal birth defects that you spoke of? they're all here, but they're subtle.   well, they look to be discrete bony deformities. there are spurs on the superior aspect of the scapula and small protuberances on the skull adjacent to the coronal suture.   well, they could be recessive characteristics expressed as vestiges of primitive morphology or a developmental anomaly like craniosynostosis.   no, i wouldn't look to the father as any kind of dark force here, mulder. i think it's the mother and virginia law on third- trimester abortions requires you to put her under arrest.   labor was induced, mulder. in the mother's blood, there was found a significant trace of an herb called mandrake. it's a poison that's been known to facilitate self-abortion.   it's also been known to be used as an hallucinogenic.   well, i called the doctor on a hunch and he said that the father was very upset about the news while the mother was quite the opposite. look, mulder, i'm going to fax this information to you so that you can present it to the commonwealth attorney for the county of roanoke but i think we have your baby snatcher here. 
  mulder?   i suggest that you proceed very carefully. this could be very emotional for everybody concerned.   mulder, you're busted.   i just got an earful from assistant director kersh who got a call from mr. weinsider who says that you're harassing him.   mulder...mulder, i have to tell him something. what do you want me to say?  mulder, you asked me to come down here and then you're nowhere to be found.  mulder... it's me. that's your cover story, remember?  that's why i was looking for you because, in fact, nobody did anything to her. mulder, there is absolutely no evidence of bodily injury of overdose, of suffocation, of anything that would explain why she was in a coma.  no, mulder, i don't think you heard what i said. i did a complete medical review, just as you asked. what i'm saying is that there is not a shred of evidence to implicate the husband or anyone.   ivan veles, born czechoslovakia in 1956. married twice, widowed twice, no children. prosecuted twice for murder of wives gisele and helga. acquitted twice on lack of evidence. who is ivan veles?  gordy boitano.   in slavic societies the name veles was synonymous with... the devil. from the lithuanian root "vele"-- a horned demon who sucks the souls of the innocent. mulder, you're not suggesting that he is himself... a devil, are you?  mulder, what are you talking about?  what are you saying, that he's trying to propagate? he's trying to breed?  but it doesn't make sense, mulder. if he's trying to breed then why would he be snatching his own babies and burying them in his backyard?   mulder, where are we going?  do you think he's got a second wife?  mulder. 
 it's okay, ma'am.  whatever the truth, mr. weinsider you can't hope to bury it now.  get the paramedics!  four total. all here for some time. maybe years. all normal, though, mulder. no osteological deformities. and betsy's baby isn't here. there are no fresh graves.  what do you think he did with it?  but she was recently pregnant. i mean, i-i saw her records. there are sonograms in the house. showing the same defects.  well, whose babies were they?  betsy?  to what? separator  don't look at me. this was your idea.   i'm agent scully, agent mulder's partner. i'm... sure the accommodations will be just fine.  uh, sir you mentioned a crisis. agent mulder has been a little ah vague as to the specifics of this crisis. 
 a single man?  you mean cloud seeding?  well, sir, if this man mootz could, in fact, somehow produce rain then what's the crime?  and this is what you told agent mulder when you spoke earlier?   a man... controlling... the weather.  mulder, i see the vacant buildings. i see the signs. these people are scared. but there have always been droughts and natural disasters and people are always looking for a scapegoat.  if we could get a list of all the people who have employed his services, it would be helpful.  we usually just say, "please."  so you actually believe that he makes it rain?  is it possible that he could have just followed it up there? 
 i'm not su... 
  we're agents mulder and scully. we're with the fbi.  uh, mr. hardt, what can you tell us about daryl mootz?  you don't think he's responsible.  thank you.  can we go now?  i hear a big "but" coming.  look at the desperation on these people's faces, mulder. they're ready to believe anything.  we just came to see the show. i guess, uh, we're a little early.  mulder, what are we doing here?  mulder, that is not a rain dance. my irish aunt olive has more cherokee in her than daryl mootz. i mean, look at him, mulder. does that look like a man who can control the weather? 
  mulder, we're going home. the rain stopped this afternoon. daryl mootz is being sued by about 50 people. there's no case... and you told sheila yourself that she wasn't controlling the weather.  oh, so, now you're saying that holman hardt...  mulder, it is still a huge leap to say that he's manufacturing the weather.  "sad"-seasonal affective disorder.   mulder, the fog has lifted and if you're ready... the plane is waiting.  a bit. why?  thunderstorms, i think. 
separator  mulder, will you quit trying to scare me and help me get these doors open.  mulder, i really have to go.  i'm not afraid, okay?  you are not scaring me, mulder. 
 look, i really have to get home. 
 mulder...  these are tricks that the mind plays. they are ingrained cliches from a thousand different horror films. when we hear a sound, we get a chill. we-we see a shadow and we allow ourselves to imagine something that an otherwise rational person would discount out of hand. the whole... mulder...?  the whole idea of a benevolent entity fits perfectly with what i'm saying. that a spirit would materialize or return for no other purpose than to show itself is silly and ridiculous. i mean, what it really shows is how silly and ridiculous we have become in believing such things. i mean, that... that we can ignore all natural laws about the corporeal body-  that-that we witness these spirits clad in-in their own shabby outfits with the same old haircuts and hairstyles never aging, never... never in search of more comfortable surroundings-- it actually ends up saying more about the living than it does about the dead.  i mean, mulder, it doesn't take an advanced degree in psychology to understand the... the unconscious yearnings that these imaginings satisfy. you know, the-the longing for immortality the hope that there is something beyond this mortal coil-  that-that we might never be long without our loved ones. i mean, these are powerful, powerful desires. i mean, they're the very essence of what make us human. the very essence of christmas, actually. 
 all right. i'm afraid... but it's an irrational fear. 
  thank you. 
 mulder, did it occur to you that there aren't ghosts here but that somebody actually might be living in this house?  but when you and i were sitting out in the car there was not a light on. and look at this. 
 mulder, did you happen to notice the clock downstairs is keeping perfect time?  and how do you explain that? 
 this fire has just gone out.  don't look so disappointed.  mulder, it's not enough that it's haunted? it has to be cursed?  mulder? 
 that's not funny!  what are you going to do?  mulder, don't.  not now.  oh, my god. 
 it's a woman. 
 mulder, it looks like they were shot to death.  you know what's weird?  mulder, she's wearing my outfit. 
 yeah, well, you know what? he's wearing yours. 
 that's us. 
 this is the same room. 
 you go through that door and i...  right. 
 mulder!  mulder? 
 i'm a federal agent! i'm armed.   i'm armed.   i'm armed.  please, i'm a little on edge. don't come any closer. my name is special agent dana scully. and, uh, i can... i can show you my i.d.  i can assure you that i'm not. i, uh, i got stuck in this room looking for my partner.  you've seen him?  oh... that was you.   i am sorry... i'm sorry. i didn't mean to scare you. i, uh... it's just that we found bodies.  right... 
  who are you?  where's my partner?  there were corpses right there underneath the floor! 
 i don't believe in ghosts.  it's my partner.  yeah.  don't come any closer.  what?  you don't know me. and you don't live here. this isn't your house.  well, then why is all the furniture covered?  well then where's your christmas tree?!  hold it right there. don't make me shoot you. stay where you are.  where's mulder?  where is he?  move over there. 
  both of you, move. move over there. move other there.  put your hands up. 
 i, uh... i couldn't sleep. i was, um...  
 mulder... none of that really happened out there tonight... that was all in our heads, right?  mmm. not that, uh, my only joy in life is proving you wrong.  well... why else would you want me out there with you?  no, i mean... maybe i did want to be out there with you. 
 mulder...  well, i got you a little something, too. 
separator  no, no, ma'am. this is just a routine background check. mr... mr. garber is not in any legal trouble whatsoever. yeah. okay. thanks for your time.   you ready to quit?  scully.  i'm on my way. 
 i've been called into kersh's office. 
  just me.  sir.   agent ritter.   margareta stoller age 57, cause of death-- an overdose of nitraz.... 
 the clock says that it's 45 minutes earlier. well, a clock can be wrong.  hmm. almost an hour and a half later.  and you suspect this man fellig? you think that mrs. stoller wasn't a suicide?  that's quite a theory.  you can tell the time of day by the shadows.   you've got another suicide here a heart attack and a very obvious murder for which another man was convicted. there's no consistent mo.  agent mulder and i will begin immediately.  mulder...  what are you doing?   it's not an x-file.  thank you. all very helpful.  no.  this is a one-time thing.  peyton ritter, this is fox mulder.  we should get going.  well, he sometimes doubles as a crime scene photographer for your precinct.  there's not much in the way of personal information there.  would you happen to know when the original background check was done? 

 i think i've got it. 1964.  maybe. 
 take a look at this. 
 1996... '87...'73  you're thinking this was fellig's work?  what's this?  yeah. i got that.  where's the second body?   mr. fellig your fingerprints were found on a murder weapon at a crime scene. could you give us a full accounting of your activities last night?  your fingerprints were found on the knife. how did they get there? 
 why would you do that? were you injured mr. fellig? you seem to be in pain. were you attacked? we found other blood at the crime scene and, when we have it tested i'm wondering if we're going to learn that it's yours.  may we see? 
 may i help you? 
  i thought we were looking for the truth. 

  scully.   mulder, it's not...  we haven't made much headway. we arrested alfred fellig and we just released him.   how do you know about that?   well, we were able to pull another set of prints off of the knife. they belong to a convicted murderer by the name of malcolm wiggins. 
  that and the fact that fellig's blood was found all over the crime scene tells me that his story checks out. at least that particular story, anyway.   i don't know what to think.  he's, uh... unusual.   mulder, where are you getting this stuff?   mulder...  i'm parked around the block. 
 mr. fellig, open up, please! 
 explain this.  you took that photo an hour before police arrived. you then purposely covered up that fact by photographing the scene again.  you have, mr. fellig, a long and uncanny history of being the first person at the scene of a death. you also have a history of covering up that fact. why?  are you a murderer? 
 well, then explain yourself, sir. because, i promise you until you do, you will not get a moment's peace. 
 it's been an hour. are we going to drive around all night?  what shot?  what... what are you talking about?  look, mr... fellig, i don't know what you're planning but nobody here is going to die.   that that woman right there is going to be murdered?  you want me to believe that? 
 fbi! don't move!  shut up! get down! back up!   you all right?  you are going to be arrested, mr. fellig, in two hours, charged with murder, and this time you won't be able to just change your name.  what you showed me was a contemptible lack of compassion for another human being. you showed me that you profit off of people's deaths. now, why shouldn't you go to prison?  "lucky"?  who's he? 
 you're saying that this is a photograph of death itself?  and this is the shot that you spoke of-- this is... what you try and get?  mr. fellig, i know... that you know more about photography than i do but this is just a lens flare.   okay, i mean... mmm for the sake of argument... why bother? i mean, why... why take a picture of death?  you know i don't believe you.  how is it you know when people are about to die?  excuse me. 
  mulder, it's me.   those other two names that you said that fellig went by-- strand and rice...?   what about louis brady?   will you check it out for me?   i'm sticking here to make sure he doesn't bolt. louis brady, mulder. tell me what you find out. 
 mr. fellig? 
 you know, most people want to live forever.  i think you're wrong. how can you have too much life? there's too much to learn, to experience.  what about love?  why are you this way? i mean, if this is true give me something in the way of proof... help me find some science that i can hang this on. 
 took your place?  but he didn't.  what do you mean?  wait a minute. say what's on your mind. you mean lucky like the others? you want me to believe that i'm about to die?  you took my picture. you took my picture last night. is this why?  i'm not going to die!  turn that off.  turn it off right now! put it down!  you took my phone. why?  what don't you want me to know?  what don't you want me to know!?  shut up! 
 yeah, mulder, i don't even know how i entertained the thought. people don't live forever. separator yes, you released him from your care earlier this evening.  well, that's why i'm here. he may have been poisoned.  i don't know. in fact, i'm not even sure what i'm looking for.  is this them in here?  we may not have time. he may not have time either.  are you sure these haven't been processed?  how is it working as a poison?  look at them-- just rattling around in the solution.  did you just touch something?  it just multiplied. look! it just did it again.  dr. plant?  i think i've found it. i think i found what the carbon's doing. it's, uh...it's not just reproducing itself. it has behavior. it's creating something, a-a matrix stimulated by blood flow in response to movement. it's multiplying and solidifying in an orderly fashion. it's building valves or-or dams in the vascular system.  where are they taking him?  i know this man.  look, i'm sorry. his name is walter skinner. we've been investigating his illness. what are you doing?  no, that's not going to save him. it's his blood.  you're not going to solve anything until you get a scope into him. nothing else is going to work. look, if you want to save this man listen to what i'm saying. 
 it's okay, sir. lie back down. we're just moving you to another room.  that's what mulder's trying to figure out right now. but we're going to take good care of you. i promise. we're going to do everything we can. 
 he's stable, but it's not good, mulder. he's got extreme vascular trauma and distension. his... his blood has become a weapon against his body.  we don't know what it is. i mean, the best that we can do is keep lasering his arteries open. but it's only going to be a matter of time before we lose. i mean, it's-it's building walls in his vessels faster than we can tear them down, and... and we just don't have the technology to combat it.  what is this?  yeah, but this is just a routine procedure, mulder. the fbi does dozens of these a year.  you're saying that dr. orgel poisoned skinner in order to cover up his analysis?  new technology. 
 well, i think i might. 
 who is it?  sir, there's something i'd like to try. it's a treatment called therapeutic plasmapheresis. it requires filtering all of the blood in your body. it's a radical procedure and there is a danger that your body might go into shock.  sir?  what do you mean?  sir, you know that's not true.  you've been our ally more times than i can say.  what?  try.  he was following you?  sir, i've spoken with your doctors and your prognosis is excellent. whatever you are infected with appears to be dormant and your recovery is being hailed as miracle.  sir? separator mulder it's my distinct impression that you just cheated. and that you're not coming in again today.  yeah, you got so much game i'm wondering if you have any work left in you.   no "jagoff shoeshine tip"?  well, about your j-o-b, mulder somebody's been trying very hard to reach you by phone. somebody who wants you back at the fbi asap.  about an x-file. didn't expect to find you here.  i thought agent spender offered you an x-file assignment.  but isn't it just the opportunity you've been waiting for?  you think it's a setup?  but agent spender asked you. mulder: like i said: not exactly.
 we've seen this before. bodies set aflame with no conclusive cause of combustion. mulder...  i was with cassandra spender when she disappeared. you sat with me while i was under hypnosis when i spoke of just these sorts of details.  i was taken to one of those train cars. i was tested, just like cassandra. what if what she tells us could expose who did this to me? mulder, agent spender doesn't have to know. 
  cassandra.  it's so good to see you.  we're old friends.  if i can get ahold of a wheelchair you want to go out for some fresh air?   i've got a surprise for you, cassandra. 
 agent mulder told me he believed he saw his sister... last year.  cassandra, you were found in a train car. you'd been operated on by doctors.  and these are the doctors who cured you?  but, cassandra, the doctors weren't infected. they were burned.  why couldn't you tell jeffrey?  spender's life's in danger?  working to do what?  why risk getting caught here?  maybe she was making it all up. 
 i bet you're curious about c.g.b. 
 c.g.b. spender-- his name. cigarette-smoking man?  it's an alias, as far as i can figure. one of hundreds.  aren't you curious what i've got in the box? everything i could find on him.  maybe. but there's a picture you're going to want to see. 
 it was taken in 1973. i traced the connection to something they worked on together for 25 years at the state department. a highly classified project. there's more, if you're ready.  cassandra spender is, indeed, the mother of agent jeffery spender and the ex-wife of c.g.b. spender. but there's something that you're going to be surprised to find out. she was first abducted in 1973 on the night of november 27.  and there are other names connected to c.g.b. spender and your father-- ph.d.s., doctors... one a nobel winner for early works in genetics. a dr. eugene openshaw.  he was the doctor that was found amongst the burn victims clinging to life beside cassandra spender. he died the next day in the hospital before he was questioned.  yeah. sir.  it's true, sir. we have documented evidence.  how did you find us? cassandra?  how did you get your clothes? 
 mulder, what are you doing?  mulder! mulder, we have to protect her. 
 mulder? mulder! [to be continued ...]separator mulder?!  quarantine for what? 
 are we going to be able to talk to somebody who can tell us what this is all about? 
 i think, based on our travel time probably fort marlene. high risk decontamination and quarantine. 
 based on what information?  what?  where's cassandra?  cassandra spender was in a general hospital environment for days. we met with her, and yet on a whim you call in the third battalion. it's unjustified and highly suspicious as to motive.  your isolation of cassandra.  no one is sick or infected here. i mean, i assume that based on you walking in here dressed to the nines offering apologies masquerading as explanations.  mulder, i want to see cassandra.  yes, and i am a medical doctor.  they've burned our clothes.  mulder, this stinks, and not just because i think that woman is a... well, i think you know what i think that woman is.  agent spender calling the centers for disease control? mulder, this is just somebody using their position to stage a hi-tech government kidnapping.  but she wasn't sick, mulder. i mean, the remarkable thing is she was well.  because of everything that had been done to her-because of the tests, because of the medical experiments and the implant put in her neck - the same thing that was done to me. she just wants it to stop. and i'm telling you, they have taken her so that it can continue.  what is she?  i'll ask you to hear me out before you launch any objection. mulder, i asked them to pull up everything they could on diana fowley.  mulder, she's playing you for a fool.  you knew her. you don't anymore. i think we can prove that to you.  yet there isn't a single piece of information available on her activities in the fbi files.  travel records pulled from airline manifests that had been purged from her fbi records. extensive movement throughout western europe. almost weekly trips to and from tunisia.  special agent diana fowley of the fbi was visiting every european chapter collecting data on female abductees.  or hiding it.  mulder, when i was abducted a chip was put in my neck. when i happened upon a mufon group filled with women who'd had the same experience.  you tell me that cassandra spender is the critical test subject - the one who could prove everything. and yet, who is watching over her? mulder, i can prove what you're saying or i can disprove it but not when diana fowley is keeping us from even seeing her. mulder, ask yourself why there is no information whatsoever on special agent diana fowley. why she would suddenly happen into your life when you are closer than ever to the truth. i mean, you... you ask me to trust no one and yet you trust her on simple faith.  well, then i can't help you anymore.  because it is personal, mulder. because without the fbi personal interest is all that i have. and if you take that away then there is no reason for me to continue. 
  mulder, i was just dialing you. where are you?   i'm coming to get you.   no, mulder, listen to me. i'm going to take you to cassandra.   i know, but i know where she's gone to, mulder.   mulder, i'm going there whether you're coming or not.   to the potomac yards. they're transporting her by train car.   agent spender called me.  sir, i wouldn't bet against him.separator (forced smile) that's right, poopyhead. win, are we in the right place? i thought this was big mike's house.  what kind of business? i thought he was a veterinarian.  that sounds great. thanks.   no kidding.  we did.  that he wasn't there. they didn't know where he was.  do you know where he is, win? 
 would you like company?  so is this the american dream? this place?  so it's just not your dream.  you know, cami, i-i've noticed that you've, uh, walked us past mike's house... twice. are you worried about him?  . let me take a look.  uh-uh. 
  what you got there?  let me wipe that off. that's a good boy.  mulder? 
 mulder, is that you? 
 sorry, mulder. somebody was in the house.  what do you mean?   in the ground. this huge creature you think you saw? 
 look, mulder, huge creatures aside do you care to hear what i think?  these are the lab results from the san diego pd. first of all, the stuff that we found on the fan blade-- the dried blood and scalp hairs? it's neither. the blood is predominantly ketchup and brake fluid and the hairs are bristles from a scrub brush and the same goes for the sample we found on the dog's muzzle. it's coffee grounds, eggshells and motor oil with about 50 other constituents with a little mercurochrome for color. in other words, mulder, it's garbage. which makes perfect sense because this entire neighborhood has been built upon an old landfill.  mm-hmm. we found this stuff everywhere because it is everywhere. it's just beneath the topsoil and that protrusion in the front yard may occur from the venting of methane gas but... mulder, i don't see how any of this has to do with the disappearances that we're investigating.  yeah?  you mean buried in the yard?  well, once we start a forensic excavation, our cover's blown. 
 (on phone) yes, this is special agent dana scully. i need a full forensic team to 450 autumn terrace. (outside we see large muddy feet walking into the house.) (on phone) no, not tomorrow. tonight. (she hears a loud thud downstairs. probably front door getting knocked down.) (on phone) i'm sorry. can i call you back? (she hangs up and reaches into her underwear drawer and pulls out her empty gun holster. she drops it back on the dresser.) scully: (under her breath, really worried) jeez. [closed captioning: "jesus."](she hears loud footsteps and we see the muddy feet walking up the stairs.) (whisper) oh, god. (scully slowly backs away from the closed bedroom door. a large figure comes up behind her. she screams, but it is muffled as a large dirty hand clamps over her mouth and her gun is held to her neck.) mike. mike. what happened to you?  why? (they hear a heavy thud downstairs. big mike begins pushing furniture in front of the bedroom door.) what are you talking about? who's downstairs?  mike... who did this to you?  stop what, mike?  (calming tone) mike, listen, settle down. okay. just give me my gun. i'm a federal agent...  mike, just give me the gun. give me... (big mike pushes scully into the closet, locks it and pulls the dresser in front of it. he turns and points the gun at the bedroom door. something really big breaks in the bedroom door. scully hears several gunshots then sounds of a violent fight and big mike screaming. nasty stuff flys through the slats in the closet door. eww.) (in the closet) mulder?  (in the closet, relieved) mulder?  (in the closet) mulder, it was here.  (in the closet) mulder! (leaving scully to finish getting herself out of the closet, mulder runs back downstairs and outside. the big brown slimy thing is beating the ... daylights out of gene gogolak. when it finishes with him, it turns and starts walking toward mulder. mulder backs away, staring at it in horror. just as it reaches him, gene gogolak, lying bloody on the ground, breathes his last, and the big brown slimy thing crumbles into dirt. mulder pokes in the remains of the monster with his toe. looks like really nasty mud. eww. scully runs out onto the front porch.)  several residents of the falls have now come forward to blame the deaths in the neighborhood on home owner association president gene gogolak. these same residents deny agent mulder's allegations that they were in some sense all responsible for the demise of gogolak himself claiming ignorance as to what actually killed him. it would seem the code of silence that hid the sins of this community has not only survived but-- in its creator-- claimed a final victim. meanwhile, the falls at arcadia has been named one of the top planned communities in california for the sixth year running.separator special agent dana scully.  out where?   what he means is i don't hear a story about a sea monster and automatically assume it's the lord's gospel truth.  apparently, so does mr. dales.  look, mr. dales, i'm sure that there is good reason for your alarm. i listened to the message that you left for agent mulder about your friends.  in the bathroom, you said?   and you have no reason to doubt ms. shipley's report?  what is it that brought you out here in the first place, mr. dales?  at least it looks like they had the time and the presence of mind to prepare for the hurricane.  hello! mrs. shipley! (mulder walks into the laundry room area having switched to a much smaller flashlight for some reason. he sees clothes on the floor and sees slime on a pipe. of course, he sticks his fingers in it and gets some stuck to his hand. scully enters as he tries to shake the slime off his hand. mulder... no sign of life.  how the hell did the cat get in the washing machine?  where do you think this leads to?  (calling into the bathroom) mr. shipley!  sir, we're agents scully and mulder. i can show you my ba - ...  well, what else would we be doing out here on a night like this?  (holding up her badge) deputy...  i'll be in the car. (with a look at mulder, she leaves the house.) (on phone) yeah. no... thank you. (hangs up) (mulder enters the car and gets into the driver's seat.) great. mulder, they're threatening to close the airport. i think we better get out of here.  yes, i'm curious, mulder but i'm also suspicious. i mean, i... i think that mr. dales' story is fueled by more than his imagination and not much deeper than the bottom of a highball.  because sea monsters can only be read about, mulder, because they don't exist.  you know what? maybe you are a member of the manson family. (mulder smiles at her.) mulder, look-- there is nothing more for us to do here. there's nothing that local law enforcement can't do for us. i mean, these people are missing. there's nowhere else to look. i've done my duty for-for mr. dales for my conscience... i mean, haven't you?  this is an emergency.  well, what about the airport? is there an alternate route?  sir, it's important that we evacuate the area. we're fbi agents and we need to get to where we're going.  i'd be happy to show you my i.d  mulder.  (speaking loudly into her cell phone) hello?  (on phone) is this the collier county sheriff? yes. oh, hi. we're driving on, uh...  (on phone) nance road. (listens for a moment and looks pointedly at mulder) no, it isn't very smart, is it? (mulder squinches his faces and sarcastically imitates her nagging) no... yes, that would be much appreciated. (to mulder) he's going to guide us to the nearest emergency shelter.  (on phone) hello? hello... (hangs up in disgust) no service.  i don't need my mettle tested. (there is a loud thump as something hits the roof of their car.) what was that?  mulder, we have to pull over. we have to wait out this storm somewhere away from the trees.  we don't know where we are and we don't know where we're going.  deputy? hello? anybody... mulder, he's in here. (deputy greer is lying on the floor gasping for air. his neck is covered in red welts.) can you talk to me? (deputy greer begins choking.) you're having trouble breathing? this man needs a trach or he's going to die real soon. (scully goes to get whatever it is she's going to need for the trach. mulder goes into the bathroom and looks in the slimy toilet. he pulls out a man's watch.) mulder, i need you to hold his head real steady. (mulder is not thrilled.) deputy, if you can hear me, just try and relax. okay. here we go. (mulder holds deputy greer's head while scully uses the blade on the leatherman to cut his throat. mulder looks away quickly. i don't know but he's having a reaction which is affecting his autonomic response.  all i know is we have to get a medivac unit out here as soon as possible.  (into deputy greer's radio) this is special agent dana scully with the federal bureau of investigation. i need a medivac unit out here asap.  (voice, on radio) i have an officer in need of emergency medical assistance.  (voice on radio) my name is dana... scully. arthur dales: (chuckling): scully! oh, god. (voice on radio) i'm a medical doctor requesting a medivac unit for a sheriff's deputy who is injured.  (voice on radio) i have a deputy who's been attacked by something as yet unidentified.  (voice on radio) his vitals are weak and he's in shock. now, i need him taken to a hospital right away.  he's had some kind of foreign organism released into his body. his condition's worsening.  i don't know. it may have been some kind of a water-borne parasite.  i'm sorry. i don't know who harry is.  he may have evacuated.  yeah. (mulder and scully go out into the hall.) we can't.  mulder, i just got off the radio. they won't even chance sending a rescue vehicle at this time. the roads are impassable, and i don't even know if the deputy is movable in this condition.  it looks that way. at least until the weather breaks. (george is listening to them from his apartment door. he checks to make sure his gun is loaded. he is very agitated, talking to himself, pacing around the room which is decorated in late 20th century disgruntled american soldier. lots of guns and flags.) i don't think these wounds are bites or stings. there's something in here, mulder, right under the skin. tongs.  mulder, what's his temperature? 
  you're not far off. it's 106. okay, somebody fill the tub with cold water and find as much ice as they can in the freezer.  yeah, well, it may be but unless we get his temperature down he's not going to survive this. now get moving. 
 we need to put this man in ice water as soon as possible. 
 i need a container. mulder, lift him up. we have to get him into the tub. 
 all that happened here is a sewage pipe burst.  look, you guys, whatever this thing is there's no evidence yet that it's going to kill anybody.  the man in the bathtub may very well be saved if he can just last out this storm. in fact, we may all be safe if we just remain calm.  how is he?   we'll be waiting for you out here.  mulder, nothing i've seen convinces me there's a monster  mulder, there is no evidence of any creature here. those organisms might just simply be waterborne parasites, but something from jules verne they are not. 
 mulder?  it's gone? 
 where'd he go?  mulder, if that were true then this wouldn't be visible, would it?  i mean, what this is showing us is that water actually attempts to kill it.  mulder, the shipleys weren't even in their house.  we're in the middle of a hurricane.  mulder, we cant. there's no way we can transport everybody.  mulder?  mulder, if we're going to leave we should leave now. [ closed captioning: mulder: he took the prowler, scully.]
 mulder?! hey, mulder, are you okay? 
 hey... wait a second. what are you doing?!  that's my partner out there!  you can't just leave him there!  he'll die!  well, i can at least keep him breathing!  look, at least let me try. i'm a medical doctor.   we're going to need water. if i'm going to deliver this baby you can put that gun down.   you don't. the truth is i've never delivered a baby before. so stand back or make yourself useful but stay out of my way. 

 you got it. breathe... breathe. okay, angela, i'm going to need you to push, okay? i need you to help me help you. okay. so let's push. 
 you got it. you got it. you're on the right track.  i'm going to need some towels, please. 
  i need some towels, damn it! 
 you're doing good. you're doing good. okay. you're doing good. okay. let's go. okay, push. 

 i can feel it up there!  okay, come on. puuush! good! you got it. okay. here it comes.  here it comes. it's coming. okay. 
 it's the water.  it's the water!  okay!  push!  it's coming! push! push! 
 okay! 
  okay, now pick up the gun.   pick up the gun! 
 shoot out the sprinklers! just point and shoot! shoot out the sprinklers! 
 well, it's official. ten pounds, ten ounces of piss and vinegar. el nino grande-- leroy walter villareal suarez, jr.  oh, yes.  what's that?   well, you wouldn't have known to go out in the rain if i hadn't pointed it out that to you that it was the fresh water that killed the organism... separator  you're in charge here, you know. it doesn't have to end like this. 
  nooooooo!!!! 
 you didn't miss the meeting. you're extraordinarily late for the meeting. it's still going on.  we took a short break and i came looking for you. what are you doing down here, mulder?  since i've been working here? yeah. when did you get a waterbed, mulder? 
  when do i not?  drop it! drop it now!  they're not going to call. what's your name?  look, i got to call you something, right? how about steve? it's a nice... honest name. steve.   bernard. i have to get my partner out of here.  oh... look, they don't know that. don't you realize that? they can't see you. they don't know what your plan is.  look... just walk in front of the door and show them.   i just want everybody to live. that's all. i just... just show them. you have control over everything that happens here. you do. and it doesn't have to end this way. 
  noooooo!!!! 
separator aren't you going home?  what you got?  you mind if i ask the cause of death?  from what?  a dog? a "dog" dog?   what happened to the dog?  yeah, i got it. did anybody, um, examine the victims, mulder? 
 look, bite wounds are rarely lethal in themselves. i mean, they are not the cause of death. they lead to it through the loss of blood, but, uh... it makes you wonder how accurate this report is.  mulder, i don't have to tell you how absolutely and completely wrong that seems. i mean, they were found dead in a locked cage, right?  two grown men?   you're not going to tell me that a dog did this.  yeah. 
 jake conroy, age 30. he was employed as a customs agent by the federal government. the bite marks match those of the victims on the chinese freighter. in this case, it bit off the man's hand. there's some talk in the house that he may be involved in the theft of the animal and that it turned on him.  well, it does make sense. i mean, a victim and his dog are attacked inside of a house with all the doors shut. it couldn't have happened unless the dog was being kept inside.  well, then what?  you mean covering up crime scenes?  so, you're talking about a dog that has human intelligence.  well, even if there were such an animal where would we even begin to look for one?   yeah, he doesn't listen and he chews on the furniture. 
 you sure this woman's not an authority on bats?  how is it that you know so much about her but you don't know what she looks like?  but you assume that she's going to help us?   oh, so you two are chummy?   ah. the wolf inside... dogs don't lie... better than human... better than human?  well, she seems to have made a connection to you. 
 intelligence enough to murder?  what about a dhole?  mulder... she's a friend of yours?  on-line...  is it the same dog?   i don't think wolfwoman is here to speak to me about this. i'll take a look at the body. 
 did they tell you anything?  and that's what you think the print indicates?  just yesterday you dismissed the possibility outright, that a dog or a... a canid, as you call it, would behave like this.  but you'll accept the idea that it behaves in every other way like jack the ripper.   oh, i'm... fairly certain there is. 
 how well do you know this woman, mulder?  well, i question her motives.  she's enamored of you, mulder. don't underestimate a woman. they can be tricksters, too. 
 i'm a federal agent. i'm armed. if you can hear me, don't move. just stay where you are and tell me if you're okay. 
 mulder?  come take a look at this. 
 i'll call the paramedics. 
 continuing his investigation. 
 no. this is my investigation.  you.  i thought at first that they were eccentricities or affectations-- the dark, the clothes-- but it's photosensitivity. your sleeves cover up skin lesions. it's why you're here amongst the humans instead of out in the field. systemic lupus erythematosus.  ironic or perverse?  but not with mulder. with mulder, you found somebody you could communicate with.... someone who challenged you... but that wasn't enough. you needed to lure him out here.   you don't believe it, do you-- not for a minute-- that there's an animal out there killing?  more cunning than you? 
  i'm watching you.   now tell me why you pulled me away from the suspect and chained me to this chair 'cause i haven't seen hide nor hair of detweiler since i've been here.  what do you mean?   mulder...  so, what is he going to do? walk in here, skitter across the linoleum and pee in the corners?  mulder, the only thing karin berquist is interested in is you. 
 you're kidding yourself if you think that she hasn't manipulated this entire situation for her own purposes.  you going home?  you think this is your fault.  why wouldn't you believe her?   well, she had a lot of secrets, that's for sure. i think that karin berquist lived by her instincts. she sized people up pretty quickly and i think she figured you out to a "t."  i think she saw in you a kindred spirit, mulder. she may not have been able to express that to you. maybe what she did was the highest form of compliment. 
 you going to be okay?  oh. this came for you. 
separator should we arrest david copperfield?  well, maybe he was killed elsewhere.  i don't know. it's, uh... it's not a simple bisection. there's a considerable amount of his abdomen missing. i mean, it almost looks like a burning but it's too localized. maybe an industrial acid.  oh.  spontaneous human combustion.  well, isn't that where you're going with this? mulder: dear diary: today my heart leapt when agent scully suggested spontaneous human combustion. mulder, there are one or two somewhat well-documented cases. 
 mulder, shut up. 
 okay. what do you make of this?  and who is pinker rawls?  so you're saying that a ghost did this?  so we're looking for a dead man?  okay. well, at the risk of further ridicule, mulder, what if this wasn't a murder? i mean as i understand it, current theory on spontaneous human combustion is that climatic conditions play a large part. so, possibly a tornado may fit the bill. we've got lightning, um, static electricity at a high potential.  well, then how did rawls or whoever do this? how did he get in and out of a locked office and prop a body up against the inside of a door? 
  wilson pinker rawls, age 34. eight years into 30 for robbing a wire office in bay saint louis. the $90,000 he stole was never recovered.   his record dates to 1978. mostly small-time. history of violence throughout. 
 whoever he was.  mulder. 
 oh, my god. 
 pistol in his hand, slide locked open, shell casings everywhere. i don't see any bullet holes anywhere, mulder. 
 bo merkle. this is his house.  $90,000. the wire office robbery eight years ago. the money hasn't been recovered.  i don't think mr. merkle did either, judging by the decor. 
 yeah.   i can run down the name.   yeah, this is special agent dana scully with the fbi. there's been a murder here at 922 washington avenue in jackson. i need crime scene support on-site as soon as possible. thank you. oh, and could you transfer me to the records division, please? 

 got a name to go with the face. june gurwitch. there's no current address, though and, uh, no record of her since 1996.  the state police have put out an apb on rawls.  look, mulder, even if those were bullets...  even if these were bullets, there is no way that they could pass through rawls in the way that you're describing-not, not without leaving him sprawled dead on the ground for us to find.  he walks through solid objects?  and flesh into carbon.  but where's the science in all of this, mulder? you're talking alchemy.  i'm sorry i even brought it up.  june gurwitch.  she has a sister named jackie, and i have the address. 
 jackie gurwitch? fbi! (mulder and scully silently walk through the house separately, searching. they meet again in the hall. on the door to the room where jackie ran, they see the words "i want what's mine" burned into the wood. mulder kicks in the now brittle door and they find jackie sitting despondently on the bed.) her son's spending the night at a friend's house and she's going to meet them there. she said that she didn't tell rawls where her sister was. (hard for her to say) mulder, she said that he walked right through the wall.  maybe he left on foot or he stole another car.  well, maybe he's still in the neighborhood. i think the, uh, local pd can search but we have to get going.  to meridian. that's where june gurwitch lives... or june burdett as she's now called. (camera does close up on their trunk. inside shot of the trunk shows pinker rawls hiding.)  agents scully and mulder with the fbi. we are looking for june gurwitch, also known as june burdett.  an escaped convict by the name of wilson pinker rawls-- we believe that he may be pursuing ms. gurwitch with the intention of harming her.  they're fine.  so you took it.  it's best you both stay under 24-hour guard until rawls is apprehended. it's for your protection.  don't discuss this with anyone, mr. werther.  rawls was in the trunk?   mulder? 
 he stopped at the mirror.  electrostatic repulsion. individual electrons repelling one another like magnets.  resistance against electrical current. a good insulator like rubber, like glass.  say... say that your theory is correct- that he can walk through walls. why go through all this effort over an old robbery score? it's $90,000-- he could get that anywhere, right?  yet he turned this place upside down which means he was looking for something. and i think it has to do with this.  it's a lien on unpaid hospital bills dating back to 1992 and the patient name is june gurwitch. and this is an ic d-9 number-- a hospital diagnostic code. this particular one means...  right. specifically, c-section.  uh-huh. "i want what's mine." this man is looking for his child, mulder. 
 he has to intend for june to lead him to his child.  yeah, but where? we don't have a name or an address. i mean, june may not either, for that matter. if the child was was adopted... i think our best bet is to go through state records but it's going to take some time.   yeah, can you also check her alias, please? it's burdett, b-u-r-d-e-t-t.   all right, thank you very much.  no match on burdett or gurwitch.  sealed files?  well, maybe she didn't go through official channels. maybe the kid's with a friend or a relative somewhere. 
separator it's called a "milagro." that's the spanish word for "miracle." it's worn as a lucky charm.  it was dropped off at reception by a man in his late 20s, early 30s... average looking, average build. they weren't able to get a good id. there are no fingerprints and no dna from his saliva.  did you see that it's a burning heart?  well, maybe it has something to do with his next victim. maybe he's taunting you.  i think i'll check it out. mulder: actually, let me. you've got a 9:00 a.m. with the dc medical examiner. he's going to let you autopsy the latest victim.
 thank you for making my schedule but i think i'm going to have to be late for that appointment. 
 why are you telling me this?  yes. how did you know that?  i know you. you live next to somebody i work with. why are you following me?  you imagined it.  yeah.  that was from you?  yeah, and i don't know you now and i don't care to.  i'm sorry. 
 i was doing some research and learning that i owe you an apology.  the milagro charm-- you were right about its insignificance.   mulder, this... is nothing more than a tool used by a lovelorn romeo who just happens to be your next-door neighbor.  yes-- my secret admirer who claims to know the mysteries of my heart.  no, i wish i were. he cornered me today and told me my life story. it was kind of frightening, actually.   no, but that shouldn't be too hard to find out, should it? 
  mulder. not without his lawyer. 
  mulder. 
 mulder, where are you going?   i did that. that's what i've been doing. dr. ken naciamento, sao paulo, brazil, emigrated here in 1996.  he's dead.  two years dead, mulder. i'm having them fax me a certificate of death.  well, maybe he didn't do it at all.  maybe he imagined it, like he said. like shakespeare or freud or- or jung. i mean, maybe, maybe he has some gift and he has a clear window into human nature.  well, isn't that what you do, mulder, as a behavioral profiler? you you imagine the killer's mind so well that you know what they're going to do next.   i read a chapter. what does he say?   i think you know me better than that, mulder.  what is it?   grief squeezed at her eggshell heart like it might break into a thousand pieces its contents running like broken promises into the hollow places his love used to fill.  scully:  how could she know this pain would end? that love, unlike matter or energy, was in endless supply in the universe... a germ which grows from nothingness which cannot be eradicated even from the darkest of hearts. if she had known this-- and who could say she would believe it?-- she would not have chanced to remain at his sad grave until such an hour so that she might not have to learn the second truth before the first: that to have love was to carry a vessel that could be lost or stolen or worse, spilled blood-red on the ground. and that love was not immutable and could become hate as day becomes night as life becomes death.
 she's a no-show at home or anywhere else she might go.  maybe his statement's to prove that he's telling the truth-- that he truly just imagined it, mulder.  mulder, that's not him.  mulder.  mulder, he works here. 
 how did you know, mulder, that the body was in the truck?  it's still no evidence that padgett directed the killer.  mulder, you are making critical assumptions without any facts. what about time of death? what...? 
 what are you doing?  mulder, why couldn't he have imagined it? why couldn't he just be in the killer's head?   mulder, of course not.  no. he's just sitting there. staring. 
 he just started typing again. 
separator yeah, scully.  mulder, what time is it? mulder's voice:  2:34am.  listen, scully, i need you on the next flight to las vegas. las vegas? why?  what, exactly? 
 yeah, i trust you, mulder, it's the three stooges i'm not so sure about. 
 okay. okay, okay. okay. 
 you're absolutely sure you wanna be here for this?  okay. 
 james bellmont, age 29. visual exam reveals injuries consistent with massive trauma. multiple rib fractures with concomgent haemorrhaging, both internal and external. his spine is fractured and partially exposed.  who's "they?"  i'll begin with the y-incision. 
 langly, will you go over there and pass me the striker saw please, it's right there on the counter. 
 are you okay, langly? [fade to black] what happened?  yeah, i guess.  sure, cutie. 
 done, done, done.  how do you roll this thing?  my medical opinion? beeeeeeeeeeeeeep!   that's all i know. 
  hi.   okay, okay, okay, okay.  hi ... 
  hi, cutie.  oow ... just a little prick ...    i'll take him from here.   hello, mulder? can you hear me? i'm at the hotel. where are you? what do you mean, "what hotel," las vegas. i'm in las vegas, aren't you? you called me. what do you mean you didn't call me? oh man, i am gonna kick their asses. 
separator mulder, it is such a gorgeous day outside. have you ever entertained the idea of trying to find life on this planet?   it's not ice cream. it's a nonfat tofutti rice dreamsicle.   oh, you're mr. live-it-up. mulder, you're really mr. squeeze-every-last-drop-out-of-this-sweet-life aren't you? on this precious saturday you've got us grabbing life by the testes stealing reference books from the fbi library in order to go through new mexico newspaper obituaries for the years 1940 to 1949 and for what joyful purpose?  i don't care. mulder, this is a needle in a haystack. these poor souls have been dead for 50 years. let them rest in peace. let sleeping dogs lie.  necessity is the mother of invention.   eat, drink and be merry, for tomorrow we may die.  no-ho-ho-ho-ho-ho!  mulder! 
  mulder!? you cheat. i can't believe that you've been reading about baseball this whole time.   boring. mulder, can i ask you a personal question?  did your mother ever tell you to go outside and play? mulder? 
 mulder?  you just defaced property of the u.s. government. 
 you rebel. so, uh... i get this message marked "urgent" on my answering service from one fox mantle telling me to come down to the park for a very special very early or very late birthday present. and, mulder... i don't see any nicely wrapped presents lying around so, what gives?  no, i guess i have, uh... found more necessary things to do with my time than ...  slap a piece of horsehide with a stick.   this my birthday present, mulder? you shouldn't have.  okay.  yeah.  hips before hands.  mm-hmm.  i'm in the middle. 
  shut up, mulder. i'm playing baseball. 
separator which rules out decomposition. i'd say predation, but the... the bones would be scattered.   right. well, i'd say it looks like a double murder, possibly one with ritualistic overtones. the bodies may have been stripped then skeletonized, possibly by boiling or by the use of some kind of acid solution. maybe the arrangement of the bodies has some meaning for the killer or killers. but at any rate, i'd term it "ritualistic."  well, what do you think this is?  and what does that have to do with these two?  ufos. extraterrestrial visitors from beyond who apparently have nothing better to do than buzz one mountain over and over again for 700 years.  mulder, can't you just for once, just... for the novelty of it come up with the simplest explanation, the most logical one, instead of automatically jumping to ufos or bigfoot or...?  yeah. i looked. it's empty. it's as if he just vanished.  doctor... it's more of that digestive material.  looks like it's coming up from out of the ground. 
 they were only going in before.  how? i mean, this, this cave's not much more than a hole in the rock.   that, um... that digestive secretion that we keep finding-- could it, could it have done this to him?   well, it's... it's chemically similar to gastric juices, right? i mean, maybe he fell in it or... may... maybe it's a product of a... of a particular vegetation that grows in the area.  it was... it was on the schiffs.  what is the most logical explanation?   what arrangement?  sir? you're satisfied with my conclusions in this case?  well... i was unable to determine a clear cause of death nor was i able to fully account for the condition of agent mulder's body.   no. i mean that was one possible scenario that i mentioned, but... in my mind it, it, it was the least plausible.  my role in the x-files has always been to provide a... a rational scientific perspective to cases that would seem to defy explanation-- a counterpoint to agent mulder.  have i? how many x-files has my scientific approach fully and satisfactorily explained?  sir, this one makes no sense at all.  that's what agent mulder would have thought.  i, uh... i still can't believe it.  no, thank you. 
 i was beginning to think that i was the only one who was a little suspicious.   find who?  i don't understand.   those were not my findings. you guys believe that, too-- that mulder was murdered?  no, it is not the obvious answer!   what the hell is wrong with everybody?! you guys, there are unanswered questions here! am i the only one that's asking them?! 
 you three, of all people! you should be all over this, not buying the party line. look, something else is going on here. am i the only one who thinks that?! 
  what have you done with him?  where is mulder? where is he? what have you done with him?!   look, something else is going on here! where is he?! where's mulder?! 
 that's correct, sir. we know that the organism extends for at least ten acres. though it's mostly subterranean so it may be far larger.  the lab results determined that the spores we were exposed to have a chemical structure similar to lsd. they also contain an alkaloid which induces a state of narcosis.  that's right.  well, the fact remains we did.  mulder, we did escape. i think you're suffering from post-traumatic stress.  mulder, i...  mulder! (mulder shoots skinner three times in the chest. yellow goo comes out of the wounds. skinner stares straight ahead. scully watches as mulder dissolves in yellow goo.) (weakly) mushroom. separator  dr. solomon merkmallen, professor of biology, university of ivory coast.  elsewhere... in this universe.  yeah.  it's the idea that mars or other planets were habitable long before earth and that, uh, cosmic collisions on these planets blasted microbes into our solar system - some of which landed and flourished here.  well, almost any scientist would... theoretically. i mean, it's just a theory. that's about it, though. you don't think this has anything to do with his death, do you?   much less plausible.  and what was it supposed to say?  well, why don't we?  what are we doing, mulder? this is a police matter at best.  are you going to try and convince me that you have no personal interest in this case?  oh, come on.  two men suggesting that we're all martians. now why would they possibly come into foul play?   i don't understand you, mulder. you're willing to pursue any case involving aliens no matter how tenuous the connection. there has to be some limit to your interest... i mean, this endless pursuit of the truth, mulder it just... it doesn't make any sense to me now. 
 mulder? did you hear a word of what i just said?  no?  well, maybe you didn't want to hear it.  mulder... look, after all you've done, after all you've uncovered-- a conspiracy of men doing human experiments, men who are all now dead-- you exposed their secrets. i mean, you've won. what more could you possibly hope to do or to find? 
 guess i was right about this being a police matter. detective?  agents mulder and scully with the fbi. what do you have here?  any word on this dr. sandoz?  told by whom?   capable of murder?  are you, uh, speaking of this? 
  mulder?  what is it, mulder?  do you have a fever?  you're not kidding.  it's just a piece of paper. you're late.  i called chuck as i knew you would for authentication, and to get his professional opinion on how you say it's affecting you.  is it happening right now?  because the rubbing is a fake and i'm not the first one to say so..  and the fact that it was found in africa makes it all the mores suspicious as a fabrication.  well, that's what someone would have you believe this is.  as it turns out neither of us had to go very far to find out. 
 barnes documented sandoz's fakery once before. if he was blunt about his colleague when we met him, in here, he is downright brutal.  well, it's quite scholarly, actually.  mulder, if it were real then why would an american indian artifact be fused in rock on the west coast of the african continent?  it was from outer space. 
 mulder? hey.  let's step outside. step outside. 
 you're in pain.  mulder, whatever is causing this i think it needs immediate attention. i'm going to schedule you an imagining scan.  mulder, you're not okay. if nothing else, you should be at home in bed.  you had a sense of it?  well, i hope you're not going to suggest that we arrest him on that rather baseless assumption.  we'll come get you to  well, i think i know who he was going to see. 
 your world war ii code-talker  or write them. mulder, you also said that we'd find a body. care to make good on that prediction? 
 no. why?  oh, god. parts of his body were missing-- his arms, his hands, uh, parts of his vital organs and his thyroid.  on agent mulder's urging i ran tissue samples through what's called a charged particle directional spectrometer. there were traces of a kind of radiation called c.g.r.  i don't know how to explain it but i feel that we can make an arrest.  mulder, let's go. 
 mulder, you're losing it.  mulder, you need to see a doctor.  i'll find the artifacts. you need to go home right now. mulder... 
 (voiceover) it began with an act of supreme violence-- a big bang expanding ever outward, cosmos born of matter and gas, matter and gas ten billion years ago. whose idea was this? who had the audacity for such invention? and the reason? were we part of that plan ten billion years ago? are we born only to die? to be fruitful and multiply and replenish the earth before giving way to our generations? if there is a beginning, must there be an end? we burn like fires in our time only to be extinguished. to surrender to the elements' eternal reclaim. matter and gas... will this all end one day? life no longer passing to life, the earth left barren like the stars above, like the cosmos. will the hand that lit the flame let it burn down? let it burn out? could we, too, become extinct? or if this fire of life living inside us is meant to go on, who decides? who tends the flames? can he reignite the spark even as it grows cold and weak? (scully looks inside again. dr. sandoz comes to her.) no, i, uh, i don't think that's right. i don't share in their faith.  i know. i think they have. (scully's cell phone rings. wow. service in the desert. gotta love dc cellular!)) i'm sorry.  (on phone) scully.  (on phone) i'm with dr. sandoz.  (on phone) in gallup, new mexico. where are you?  (on phone) what happened to him?  i have to go. i have to leave.   they just told me he's in the special psychiatric unit.  no, you said that there was bad news. you didn't tell me what was wrong.  look, i'm sorry. it took me three flights to get here.  what? what is it? 
 what's wrong with him? this man right here, fox mulder? 
 waiting for what?  i want to talk to him.   not to me.   about what?  when we took this case... when skinner gave it to us.  investigation into a murder.  i never sent you that report.  why were you with him last night?  you're a liar. 
 you're both liars. 
