 it is advantageous to begin an autopsy with removal of the cranium. the cranium is opened with a horizontal division an inch above the eyebrow ridges. 
 what this man imagined... his dreams, who he loved, saw, heard, remembered... what he feared... somehow its... all locked inside this small mass of tissue and fluid.  good afternoon, agent mulder. 
 you know, mulder, from... from back there, you look like him.  deep throat.  i wanted to talk but i havent found anything. 
 mulder, i havent seen any indication...  ive taken all of the necessary precautions. i have doubled back over my tracks to make sure that i havent been followed and no one has ever followed me. the x-files have been terminated, mulder. we have been reassigned. i mean, what makes you think they care about us anymore anyway?  because i realized that it was the only way that you would see me.  to know that youre all right. mulder, you passed me today within a foot, but you were miles away.  mulder, i know that you feel... frustrated that without the bureaus resources, its impossible for you to continue...  well, what then? when the bureau first shut us down, you said that you would go on for as long as the truth was out there. but i no longer feel that from you. 
 yeah.  no.  and youre worried that all your life, youve been seeing elves? 
 but, mulder... during your time with the x-files, youve seen so much.  your sisters abduction, youve held onto that. 
 mulder, even if george hale only saw elves in his mind, the telescope still got built. dont give up. and next time... we meet out in the open.
 "galactic latitude?" 
 are you following me?  i was told by the assistant director that mulder was gone.  so, whenever hes away, i feed his fish. 
 damn.  that would be bad for the fish. 
 the "wow" signal?  what was there? 
 maybe you can tell me. is that from ohio state? 
 i was sure you were dead. mulder? its scully. dana scully. do you know where you are? 
 here? or here?
 proof of what?  is that them?  we dont have time.  mulder, were never going to be able to get the body out of the country! mulder, we have to go. evidence is worthless if youre dead!
 mulder... 
 you know, an electrical surge in the outlet the storm may have degaussed everything, erasing the entire tape. you still have nothing.separator is this seat taken?  well, i'm armed, so i'll take my chances. i hear you really endeared yourself to assistant director skinner today. it's not exactly as if you've ever tried to fit into the program.  the bureau? what would you do? y, you could request a transfer to quantico. come back to the behavioral science unit. 
 wh, what about this case you're working on?  where's the body? 
 maybe i can request to do the autopsy.  there's a dead body, isn't there? examination and autopsy of john doe number one-zero-one-three-five-six. case number d-p-one-one-two-one-four-eight. special agent fox mulder, field investigator. body is an adult male, with advanced tissue decomposition, weighing a hundred and sixty-five pounds in extremis, sixty-nine inches in length. intact skin is mottled and discolored, due to submergence in and exposure to a highly bacterial environment. cause and time of death unknown. possible identifying mark on right forearm.body cavities appear normal. interior organs intact. consistent in rate of decomposition.removing the rib cage.condition of heart and lungs are good. no sign of thrombi, natural degenerate diseases, indicate victim was probably a young adult. the liver shows some nodular hardening, consistent with incipient alcoholism.oh, god!
 mulder, it's me. i need to see you, i've got something here i think you should know about.  some kind of parasite near john doe. i'm having it looked at, but i should know more by the time you get down here.  close the door. it's called turbellaria, or it's commonly known as a fluke or flatworm. apparently, it had attached itself to the bile duct and was feeding off the liver.  believe it or not, something like forty million people are infected worldwide. 
 well, maybe you'd rather hear what you can catch from a nice, rare steak.  flukes are endemic in unsanitary conditions. it's more likely that the victim contracted it down inside the sewer.  i don't know. according to my sources, it's unlikely that a single parasite could have killed him. he was a young man. but the weird thing is, there's no other discernible cause of death.  they have what's called a scolex... it's a sucker-like mouth with four hooking spikes. 
 where'd you get that?  and you're asking me if this is from a fluke?  m, mulder, the scolex is a tiny little organ. this is a huge bite mark. 
 mulder, i... i'm sorry. it felt like old times there for a second.flatworms are what are known as obligate endoparasites. they live inside the host, entering the body through the ingestion of larvae or eggs. they are not creatures that go around attacking people. no.  excuse me?  i didn't talk to anybody.  look, mulder, i... i don't know what to say, but i, i, i wouldn't betray a confidence. 
 the turbellarian flatworms are free-living carnivorous scavengers, usually less than three centimeters in length, found in fresh and sea water. they are hermaphroditic with complex reproductive systems, capable of internal fertilization. many species require more than one host to complete a life cycle. although the shape of the wound on the sanitation worker suggest scolex attachment, the sheer size of the wound precludes involvement of the common flukeworm. scully. yeah.  i don't see it. 
 oh my god.  platyhelminthis are often hermaphroditic. mulder, this is amazing. it's vestigial features appear to be parasitic, but it has primate physiology. where the hell did it come from? he was a russian. an engineer on a cargo freighter. he had a tattoo on his forearm. i didn't make the connection until i detected that that was the name "dmitri" spelled in cyrillic lettering. somebody shoved this under my door. i guess you really do have a friend in the f.b.i. and, mulder... when you see skinner to hand in your field report, i know that it's your decision, but i hope that you know that i'd consider it more than a professional loss if you decided to leave. 
 it's me, where are you?  how?  well, you're not going to like what i have to tell you?  it hadn't occurred to me, but i think that the fluke in the corpse might have been an incubating larva. this... creature, or whatever it is...is transmitting it's eggs or larvae through it's bite.
 it's looking for hosts. it attacks because the victims' bodies provide generative nourishment. mulder...  if it finds a new host... 
 is this seat taken?  i'll take my chances. you talked to skinner yesterday. that came from skinner?  i thought you might be interested in the lab results on the biology of the fluke larva. dissection and analysis indicates reproductive and physiological cross-traiting, resulting in a sort quasi-vertebrate human. yes, but still capable of spontaneous regeneration, like any fluke or flatworm.  radiation. abnormal cell fusion. the suppression of natural genetic processes. mulder, nature didn't make this thing. we did. 
 that creature came off of a decommissioned russian freighter that was used in the disposal of salvage material from the meltdown. it was born in a... in a primordial soup of radioactive sewage. 
separator i was wondering when you'd get to that.  several anomalies were discovered in post-mortem analysis that were undetected in previous autopsies. levels of adrenaline are known to be high in cases of violent death, twice as much as in victims of natural death. this subject's levels were two-hundred times normal. the adrenal gland displayed extensive adrenal hemorrhage, yet not from disease, but rather from wear. other physiological evidence present indicated intense phobia. analysis of the vitreous humor extracted from the eyeball......indicated the presence of high concentration of an undetermined chemical compound. this compound, at it's base, is similar to the substance analyzed earlier on a perpetrator's finger. although further qualitative analysis must be performed, it is my opinion that this chemical, when reacting with adrenaline and other compounds secreted during phobic episodes, creates a substance to lysergic acid diethylamide... l.s.d. i'm sorry, mulder, he's right. i'd love to tell you that i flew three-hundred miles in the middle of the night to perform tests that prove that you're about to become the next charles manson... but i find little physiological evidence that l.s.d.m. has toxically affected you... even after massive ingestion.  yes, but you are proof that it wasn't from exposure to l.s.d.m.  sure. these are normal, right here......subjected to successive l.s.d.m. sprays... you mean like... sex and ice cubes in liquor in ice cube ads? that's paranoia.  and how is this connected with the spraying?  i'm still waiting.  by who? 
 mulder, i was wrong. exposure to the insecticide does induce paranoia.  controlled by who? by the government? by a corporation? by reticulans?  yes, but why, mulder? why would they intentionally create a populace that destroys itself?  this is odd. 
 door's unlocked. 
 here it is. 
 nothing. i mean, he hasn't seen a doctor in decades.  get the uniforms out of sight. 
 we'll have to wait him out. 
separator electrocution effects electrolytic conduction, disrupting the heart beat and most of the autonomic systems. death actually occurs from tissue damage, and necrosis in the heart itself, particularly in the sinus and the atria ventricular nodes. . .  excuse me. scully picks up the phone. where are you? whats going on?  mulder. . .   whats the name? grissom didnt die from cardiac arrest.  i think you should come down and take a look for yourself. i havent even started on the chest and abdomen yet and ill have a lot more to tell you then.  stomach. i was just about to start on it.  good to meet you.  notice the pugilistic attitude of the corpse. krycek coughs into fist, loudly. this condition generally occurs several hours after death. its caused by a coagulation of muscle proteins when the body is exposed to extremely high temperatures.  this degree of limb flexion is observed exclusively in burn-related victims.  and no epidermal burns to indicate as much but when i opened up the skull, i found external hemorrhages, which can only be caused by intense heat. some how, this man suffered all of the secondary, but none of the primary physiological signs of being in a fire.  i couldnt even begin to explain what could have caused this. its almost as if. . .  its almost as if his body believed that it was burning. also in the described in the report, is a highly experimental neurosurgical procedure meant to induce a permanent waking state. the procedure involved cutting out part of the brainstem in the mid-frontal region which would explain henry willigs scar. a similar scar should also be evident on augustus cole. post-op treatment also included a regiment of synthetic supplements to replenish the organic deficits caused by prolong lack of sleep. this is consistent with the anti-depressants cole robbed from the pharmacy. these drugs maintain serotonin levels in the blood. serotonin being the primary substance produced during sleep. while it is theoretically possible that this procedure greatly diminished the subjects need for sleep, i can neither quantify nor substantiate its success without further clinical evidence. telephone rings. scully  im going over these reports you faxed me. theyre incredible.  sleep eradication still doesnt explain the shooting of those two officers, or the anomalous autopsy results on willig and dr. grissom.  they experience mild visual and auditory hallucinations, any first year med. student could tell you that.  are you suggesting that cole killed these people with telepathic images?  even if youre right, youll have a much better chance of finding cole if you work up a profile and try to surmise his next move.  where are you going?  sounds like your new partners working out.  then i was?  must be nice not having someone question your every move, poking holes in all your theories.  youd better go. ill read over this report again and see what else i can come up with.  i think i found the francis gerardi youre looking for. hes a professor of neurosurgery at harvard.  got it. they broke into my office. went through my files, my computer. . .i came as soon as security called but the report was all ready gone.  without that report as evidence, skinners not going to authorize an investigation.  skinner?  you actually met with him.  do you trust himseparator scully.  yeah, i know. i've been watching it on tv. what's going on out there?  that an escaped mental patient is holding four people hostage in a travel agency. 
 seriously?  mulder? 
 where's mulder? 
 what?  you've got to get him out of there.  no, you've got to get him out of there now or he's going to be killed!  because duane barry is not what mulder thinks he is. 
 no, i don't think you understand what i'm telling you. i just flew down here from washington...  all right, well then let me speak to someone who's in charge. 
 don't tell me to calm down, i'm not going to calm down until i can talk to someone who will listen to what i'm saying! 
 i'm special agent dana scully and i have information that is vital to your negotiations.  i think there has been a critical misjudgment here. this man who claims to be under the control of aliens, his, his mental health history describes a rare state of psychosis. as you can see from his medical records, in 1982, duane barry was shot in the line of duty, the bullet piercing his bilateral frontal lobes. the injury left him nearly incapable of functioning in society. it effectively destroyed the moral center of his brain. now, almost a hundred years ago, there was a famous case. a man named gage had a blasting rod pierce the same region.  he became a pathological liar, suffering from severe delusions. his behavior was characterized as bizarre and violent with a tendency to act out his fantasies.  agent mulder called me. we used to work together.  is there a way i can reach him with this information? 
 mulder? it's me. listen to me. you cannot trust duane barry. he is a brain-damaged psychopath who took a bullet in the head. he is not what you think he is.
 mulder, he could snap at any time. he has a history of irrational and violent behavior. now, you have to work towards resolving this. now, you have his trust. you have to try and negotiate with him.
 that's good, that's good, mulder. now keep him talking. h.r.t. is moving into position and unless you can get him to free the hostages, they're going to execute a tactical plan.
 this is the countdown, mulder, they're coming at you.   you okay, mulder?  whatever you're feeling... you did the right thing. 
 sometimes when you want to believe so badly, you end up... looking too hard. 
 this could just be a piece of shrapnel. duane barry did a tour of duty in vietnam.  and you think that this was implanted?  or some version of the truth. look, i'll, i'll take this down to ballistics. we can have this cleared up in a second.
 what do you think?  that would make sense. 
 what?  mm-hmm. looks like some kind of a stamp.  uh, i don't know what happened. 
 mulder, it's me. i just had something incredibly strange happen. this piece of metal that they took out of duane barry, it has some kind of a code on it. i ran it through a scanner and some kind of a serial number came up.what the hell is this thing, mulder? it's almost as if... it's almost as if somebody was using it to catalogue him.
 mulder!  i need your help! mulder! mulder![to be continued ...]separator mulder! 
 i need your help! mulder!
separatorseparator not fox, mulder.   mulder, i dont remember anything... after duane barry...  i knew there was a reason to live.  mulder?  i had the strength of your beliefs.    thanks.   hmm. could i see nurse owens? ive got something id like her to have.  owens. short with straight light brown hair? she watched over me in intensive care and id like to thank her. separator i'd always heard that he was brilliant.  but that was alive.  over what?  how soon can we get up there?  mulder, i appreciate your concern - but i'm ready. i want to work.  i've already lost too much time. shouldn't we find the rest of the descent team first?  mulder! 
 what's going on?  can you think of anything that might have caused or contributed to his behavior?  you're part of the team, jesse?  what do you mean?  well, considering what they've been through, not especially.  well, they've been living in the middle of nowhere for almost a year. one of their team members is dead, probably at the hands of another. you have to expect some heightened level of emotional distress.  based on what?  now, mulder, you're sounding paranoid.  ok. 
 that should do it.  do you have a freezer?   why don't you radio for the helicopter, i'm almost done here.  why not?  i know. he killed pierce and probably erikson. i think we should come back for him with a larger party.  what are you talking about?  mulder, nothing can live in a volcanic interior, not only because of the intense heat but the gases would be toxic to any organism.   it describes the metabolism from hydrogen sulfide into silicon dioxide.  but the fundamental building block for every organism known to man is carbon, from the smallest bacterium to the largest redwood tree.  mulder, that is science fiction. it's, it's an elaborate construct from a delusional mind. this doesn't prove anything. 
 mulder, whatever evidence trepkos had, he destroyed.  why on earth would they do that? but, mulder, the fact is that all of these people are suffering to varying degrees from post-traumatic stress, and from a strictly medical point of view, we have to get them out of here sooner rather than later. 

 jesse? can i talk to you? are you ok?  what happened here, jesse? you can trust me.  do you think the descent somehow triggered his breakdown?  lithium carbonate.  what are you so afraid of, jesse?  where is home?  i can't tell whether it's an infection or a toxic reaction, but we've got to get him to a hospital.  give me the short wave. 
  this is agent scully with the firewalker team. come in, search and rescue.   you guys go ahead. i'll get o'neil and meet you at the landing site.   request dispatch of med-evac to our location immediately. we have an asian male, mid-thirties, spiking a high-grade fever. 

 tanaka's collapsed. we're getting him out. 
 without better imaging equipment, i can't say for sure.  it appears to be some kind of a fungus.  well, i'm not a botanist, but i think it's fair to guess that it's an unknown genus. 
 spores. i scraped them off the tip of the fungus. it appears as if one of the spores grew inside of tanaka until it reached reproductive maturity ... essentially outgrowing its host. but by then, it had already caused massive tissue damage, particularly to the respiratory tract.  maybe now there is, but we won't have conclusive proof until we determine its molecular structure.  this might explain something else, though. the spore could explain trepkos' dementia. fungi often contain alkaloids that can affect the nervous system.  we don't know that. if it was an airborne microbe, any of us could have inhaled the spore.  not until we know how it's transmitted, how it incubates. if even one of us is infected, we could risk infecting a much larger population. 
  maybe you should go check up on o'neil. 
 what if he's already dead?  he's dangerous, mulder. he's already killed two men.  will you at least let me go with you?  look, i know what you're thinking but you have to get past that. we both do. i'm back, and i'm not going anywhere.  jesse? (there is no answer. she knocks again and tries the door but it is locked.) i thought you might like to know, chances are good that none of us were infected. we were at a safe distance from tanaka when the spores scattered, and as soon as mulder and ludwig come back we can leave. i, i just need to run a few more tests but i think we're going to be ok. (inside, o'neil is in front of a mirror, coughing. she sees that there is a bulge moving in the front of her throat and groans.) ok, jesse? jesse? (mulder and trepkos are at firewalker.) jesse? (there is no answer. scully goes to the electrical switchbox and checks the switches but the problem is not there. as she closes the door to the switchbox, o'neil appears, startling scully.) oh! god, you scared me! jesse? are you ok? jesse, what's wrong? jesse? (o'neil appears to be in pain. she pushes scully toward a table and slips a handcuff around scully's wrist, handcuffing the two together.) jesse, what are you doing? (scully looks up and sees a large bulge forming in o'neil's throat.(outside, mulder is running through the woods.)(in the station, scully pulls o'neil back into the lab. she puts their wrists onto the table and grabs the mountaineering pick. she strikes at the chain repeatedly in an unsuccessful effort to sever it.)(outside, mulder emerges from the woods and is in sight of the station.)(inside, scully hasn't been able to break the chain, and she sees that the bulge in o'neil's throat is getting larger. she throws o'neil over her shoulder and heads into the next room. she puts o'neil into a plexiglass contaminated sample chamber, closes the door against the chain and leans on the door from the outside to keep it shut. o'neil rises and tries to break through the plexiglass but cannot. she falls back into the room and the spike erupts, ejecting the spores against the inside of the plexiglass while scully is safe outside. scully sinks to the floor and tries to catch her breath as mulder is heard entering the station.) i'm ok, i'm ok. (mulder comes to her side. scully sighs heavily, and mulder gently puts his hand to the side of her neck.) i'm ok. (she looks up at the handcuffs. mulder uses his key to unlock it, freeing her arm. mulder gives her a "sure you're ok?" look.) yeah. (mulder helps her up and they look at o'neil's body through the plexiglass.) look. she was infected. i don't know how.  did you find him? (trepkos enters the lab, still carrying the gun, which he sets aside. he sinks to his knees at the chamber door, staring at o'neil's body through the plexiglass.) mulder, what are you doing? they're going to want to question him. separator what does that mean?  what does the police report say? 
 any evidence of sexual assault?  does it seem like it might have been a schoolboy prank?  victims? you mean there've been others? 
 what's your interest in this?  what's that?  what's the significance of the name "red museum?"  you know sheriff, from what little we've seen, what, what little you've told us, they seem rather unlikely to be involved in the kind of activities that you described.  what are walk-ins?  hi.  who are you?  oh, you're in all the pictures. you must be gary's younger brother. i'm dana. stevie... do you remember who your brother might have gone out to see the other night?did he say anything?
 well, thank you for your time. 
 you know, mulder... ribs like these, i'd say the church of the red museum has its work cut out for it. thanks.so, you started to tell me about walk-ins but i'm not sure if i grasped the finer points. to inhabitation by a new spirit.  but not nixon?  so are you still subscribing to the sheriff's claims of a possession?  well, i'll tell you something, i kind of feel weird saying this... ...but i got the creeps in that apartment today. yeah, what, what's going on? 
 mulder?  kind of hard to tell the villains without a scorecard. i just examined the girl.  not much until the toxicology report came back. they found trace amounts of an unspecified alkaloid substance in her blood, possibly an opiate derivative, as well as a dangerously large quantity of something called scopolamine.  well, only in very small doses. anything past .2 micrograms and you've got a very powerful anesthetic with hallucinogenic qualities. it's been in the news lately because colombian gangs have been using it in kidnappings to subdue their victims.  yes, you'd probably have to be a doctor or a pharmacist to get hold of these quantities. "richard odin. also known as doug herman. left a.m.a. in 1986 over questionable ethics inquiry. did not renew license."
 we can get a warrant if that's what it takes.  yes, sir, but you can't hide behind your rights if a crime has been committed.  are you familiar with a substance called scopolamine, mister odin?  have you ever ordered others to do so?  yes.  why did you sell it?  you said you wanted to show us something.  a genetically-engineered growth hormone.  how do you mean?  but these hormones have been proven safe. they've been cleared by the f.d.a.  what about the second body?  thank you.  i think we'll know more once we find out what this is. you're sure? both kids? no, it's okay, i'm... i'm sure you're correct. thank you very much. 
 you found a connection between the out-of-town kids and the kids abducted here. every one of them was delivered and treated through childhood by doctor larson.  why would he carry a list of credit card numbers?  but why? and what was he treating them for? 
 i don't know. we won't get the test results back on the vial until tomorrow. are you thinking it might be bovine growth hormone?  i know. and it still doesn't answer the question of who's marking those kids... or why. hi. sorry to come unannounced.  actually, we wanted to talk with you, if that's okay. 
 well, thinking back, was there anything that seemed strange to you? was gary sick often?  why was he going to doctor larson?  jay's your husband?  what accident? 
 what is it, mulder?  what? 
 his name is gerd thomas. he's owned the building for twenty-one years. he used to run a day-care center out of it. they're holding him for us. 
 i know that face.  sheriff... where's mulder?  don't move! put it down. now.just put the lighter down.
 file number xwc060361. the identity of the man shot in the slaughterhouse has yet to be determined. his name, any record or artifact of his past, present or immigration status have yet to be found. his fingerprints are not on file in either the f.b.i. or national system of records. at this time, it remains doubtful that anyone will come forward to i.d. or claim the body. 
 under further analysis, the inoculant found in the broken vials was isolated and determined to be an unstable antibody of no known biological origin. after three weeks of study, the components of the serum, probably synthetic, have broken down structurally and, in this retrograde state, cannot be analyzed further. this coincides with the development of a severe and undiagnosed flu-like ailment affecting the children who were believed to be inoculated and some of the local families. to date, none of the congregants or members of the church of the red museum have contracted this illness. i suspect whoever was doing may have been using them as a control group.the shipping manifests for what is believed to be milk and beef tainted by the unspecified inoculant do not provide enough information to track their destinations.a local advisory and quarantine have been established. further inquiry into the tainted beef has been promised by the pertinent government health agencies.the f.b.i. investigation into this case is currently at a standstill. the case remains open and unsolved.
separator  good morning.  good. because i put it back in that drawer with all those other videos that arent yours. 
 no. this is michelle charters. shes a registered nurse at a convalescent home in worchester, massachusetts.  according to miss charters, she was raped. the abrasions and contusions here would be consistent with her claims as would be the medical report which cites the kind of injury and tearing associated with sexual trauma.  no. the woman made the video herself. it seems that no one will believe her story.  because she claims to have been raped by an invisible entity. a spirit being.  not surprisingly.  yes. but this case is different.  the victim has filed a lawsuit against the government. she seems to be certain who the spirit being is. and you know him ?  i know this is hard for you.  to continue our investigation were going to need some kind of evidence physical or  did you ever threaten miss charters?   did you ever threaten miss charters?  she says you made advances.   advances?  what do you think, mulder?  about his story.  but in a substantiated crime. 
 is there still a medical staff?  what kind of treatment?  was he receiving special treatment?  are you saying you dont believe nurse charters allegations of rape?  this is michelle charters?  id like to review it myself, if thats okay?  call 911. hal. can you speak?  i think this mans in ventricular fibrillation. i need 75 milligrams of lidocaine and one amp of amphinephrine. stat.  and get me a defibrillator!  hes turning cyanotic. come on, hal. you gotta help me.  im losing him. whats taking them so long?  a setback?  but alzheimers isnt treatable.  ive read about it, but ive also read that the clinical benefits are marginal at best.  would it be possible for us to take a look at other patients in your test group?  yeah. 

 can i get a copy of hal ardens autopsy results?  thank you. 
 leo, were with the fbi. we have some questions that wed like to ask you.  dr. grago tells us that you havent been able to work in years. that the medicine has improved  what is it then? upshaw: okay, rembrandt. 6:00. dinner time. .to find not just the treatment but a cure for alzheimers. do you realize how important that would be?  any progress at all  what if theres a connection?  dr. gragos therapy produces acetylcholine. too much cholinergic activity causes a phychotic state similar to schizophrenia.  its possible.  well, maybe its not in the medication. maybe its the place itself.  im talking about an environmental reason behind whats happening there. even the disinfectant couldnt mask that smell. who knows whats breeding behind the walls or in the sub-structure. some fungal contaminants have been known to cause delusions, dementia, violent behaviour  maybe it has.  her lip required 13 stitches. the blow to her head resulted in a subdural hematoma. thats quite a concoction. look, i just want to talk to a few more patients there. we can catch the same flight out tomorrow night. 
 yes. wed like to have a word with mr. phillips.  were with the fbi. we have a few questions concerning his medical treatment.   its hard for anyone to be here, including the residents.  how many years has he been here?  why were you growing them?  were you feeding them to the residents here?  for what purpose?  are you saying that a spirit killed this man, upshaw?  about?  mulder, mushrooms arent medication. they taste good on hamburgers, but they dont raise the dead.  i think youve been reading too much carlos castenada.  i know --- a shaman gets intoxicated, he has dreams or hallucinations, and he interprets them. i dont think its any more magical than that.  well, i think, if anything, these mushrooms are a poison to the system and i think thats what killed hal arden.   mulder! whats going on!? mulder!? mulder!  theyre trapped in the bathroom and its filling with water.  wheres the main water shutoff?  gung will know.  keep trying the door. 
 see if you can find something to force it with.  you stay with him. ill get help.  dr. grago! dr. grago.  do you have any atropine in your kit here?  stan phillips has gone into convulsions. i think he might have poisoned himself. 

 you okay, mulder?   in response to the series of unexplained incidents at the excelsius dei convalescent home, the massachusetts department of public health has assumed all administrative authority at the facility. they detected trace amounts of ibotenic acid in more than half the residents tested. though these levels have dissipated rapidly. 
  dr. john grago has been replaced as head physician at the facility and his trial use of the drug depranil has been suspended. for his admitted part in manufacturing and distributing an illicit substance, gung bittouin was remanded to the immigration and naturalization service and is awaiting repatriation to malaysia. there are reportedly no efforts being made to study the mushrooms. 
  the federal government has settled michelle charters lawsuit out of court though no clear blame has been placed. witnesses to the events have been unreliable due to dramatic relapses and a general reversal in their progress with alzheimers disease. 
separator any cavities?  well, there's a filling on the occlusal surface of the upper left bicuspid here and here  and he's congenitally missing a lower left bicuspid here and here ... yeah, i'd say they're definitely a match. who do they belong to?  that name sounds familiar.  what's your interest in this case?  believing in the paranormal?  which is?  i guess that's why we're going to aubrey.  these bones are in good condition. but i think the field may have been tilled shortly after chaney was buried; there are small cuts on the top three ribs. i don't think they were made by an animal.  well, that's poetic but it doesn't help us much. what did he say about the 1942 homicides?  mulder, these cuts on the ribs -- they could have been made by a razor.  no, but we might be able to if we can find somebody in aubrey who has a digital scanner. (somewhat later. scully is seated at a computer eating a cookie. the screen reads, "fbi image analysis. please wait.") i've scanned the images from the crime photo and the ribcage and loaded them to quantico. it's gonna be a few more seconds before the hookup.  mulder, i don't think bj was in the woods that night because of engine failure.  well, the motel black would have been the perfect meeting place -- away from town, away from his wife ...  it's obvious bj and tillman are having an affair.  a woman senses these things.  the image on the right is chaney's ribcage. the one on the left was extrapolated from the crime photo of the slash killer's last victim. now i need to enlarge the victim's ribcage in order to allow for gender difference. (taps busily on keyboard.) and now, we can compare them. (computer beeps and reads, "attempt match image compare no match".)  i'm searching for any matching pattern of cuts. (bj appears at the door.) feeling better?  things must be difficult for you now. i've had ... feelings for people i've worked with. interoffice relationships can be complicated ... especially when he's married. 
  you're pregnant, aren't you? 
 no, not yet.   nightmares?  have you talked to anyone about these nightmares?  what are you going to do?   well, bj's pregnant, and tillman's the father. 
 well, it could be a word, or it could just be random slashes.  well, that means getting a court order. it could take a couple of days. maybe we could find a relative who could speed up the process. 
 no, those were from a case that agent ledbetter and agent chaney were investigating in 1942 before they disappeared. case no. d-147816 ref 44-9a aubrey police department criminal package reference recordbradshaw, antonia eberhardt, kathy van cleef, laura hom, rape 1942 case no d 147816
 bj?  what do you think it is? 
 do you know why they might have been in your dream?   this is the man bj claims to have seen in her dream. 
  harry cokely. he lives in gainesville, nebraska since his release from macalester penitentiary on december fifth, 1993. 
 he was convicted in 1945 for rape and attempted murder. cokely carved "sister" on the chest of his victim, linda thibedeaux, before she was able to escape and get help from a neighbor. 
 no.  but mulder, the man we're talking about is 77 years old.  what if it's cryptamnesia?  yeah. bj told us that her father was a policeman in the area. what if she heard him discussing the 1942 case when she was young? she might have even seen pictures of cokely .  what if the recent murders triggered what was previously buried in her mind ... some connection she'd unconsciously made that no one else had been able to make.  yeah, something like that.  i seem to recall you having some pretty extreme hunches.  mr. cokely, our records show that in 1942, you lived in terrence, nebraska, an hour's drive away from aubrey, missouri. during that time, three women were murdered in aubrey.  their assailant had mutilated their bodies with a razor in the same manner that you slashed mrs. linda thibedeaux's body in 1945.  well, i'm sure mrs. thibedeaux will never forget it. 
 what kind of pills?   that won't be necessary.  for now.  
 thought you might need these.  you hurt yourself. 
 cokely attacked you?  well, i'll have tillman pick him up. 
  mulder?  i have the preliminary results from the genetic testing from the blood found under verna johnson's nails. they checked it against cokely's. the pgm subtype matches, the dqf and the d-1s are the same.  the results strongly suggest that. imagine the strength of this man's psychosis still driving him to murder after fifty years.  well, she's not the first. mrs. thibedeaux also survived his attack back in 1945.  i know this goes back a long way, mrs. thibedeaux, but can you tell us what happened the night harry cokely attacked you?  the bones bj found under the house belong to chaney's partner, agent ledbetter. cokely rented the house in 1942. the detectives at the crime scene found an old straight razor under the house, they're trying to lift some prints. and cokely's been released, but i think we have enough to nail him.  yeah, but you know the state of mind she was in that night. she, she could have been mistaken.  are you saying cokely's grandson attacked bj?   i don't think mendel had serial killers in mind when he developed his theory on genetics.  what?   yeah, danny valladeo, it's agent scully.  what does that have to do with cokely?  but children aren't born liking sunflower seeds. environments shape them; behavior patterns are taught.  waldo?   yeah, danny.  yeah, thanks, i'll tell him.  danny tracked down mrs. thibedeaux's son. he was a policeman named raymond morrow.  bj is cokely's granddaughter.  mulder ...  wait, mulder. do you honestly think that bj is capable of murder?  that's outrageous!  so you're saying that bj's nightmares are real? that, that she's out there killing these women and carving "sister" on them?  well then how do you explain the cuts on her own chest?  where are we going?  mulder.  mrs. thibedeaux. what happened?  can you stand?  let me help you up the steps.  bj's going after tillman. the first murder occurred after bj found out she was pregnant. she's looking for someone to blame. i think that's tillman.  why?  i'm giving a statement.  can we talk about this outside?  have you seen detective morrow?   detective morrow broke into this woman's house and attacked her with a razor.  freeze!   let him go. let him go, bj.  he's dead. 
  we are continuing with genetic testing on detective morrow. evidence suggests the presence of a mutator gene that has activated previously dormant genes, but the results so far are inconclusive.  detective morrow has not demonstrated any further physiological changes. extensive blood work and psychological testing has been conducted in order to determine whether the pregnancy could have been a catalyst for the transformation. we have yet to determine the effects on the fetus. 
  amniocentesis results show no genetic abnormalities. chromosome testing has determined the child's sex to be male. bj is on her second week of suicide watch after an unsuccessful attempt to abort her son. lieutenant tillman has petitioned to adopt the child, and the case will soon be presented to the courts. 
separator yeah... i've read about cases of desecrating the dead, but this is the first time i've seen one.  why do they do it?  how that didn't shock you back there.  mulder, we flew three hours to get here. our plane doesn't leave until tomorrow night. if you suspected, why -  did you get your forensics report on this one?  i'll be right with you. . i need a minute. the time is eleven fourteen am, monday, november 14th. the deceased is a female in her twenties...   mulder, can i have a minute with you?  i think i might better drive this investigation if i focused on the evidence.  that i take the body back to washington. i'd like to run it through the fingerprint lab there. you know those guys, they can pull a print -  i'm not having trouble, mulder.  i'm fine with it. really. i just think we're a long way from catching this guy. if we could get a print, we'd have something to go on. right now we're at a standstill. mulder : i think it's a good idea. : i just don't want you to think you have to hide anything from me, scully. i've seen agents with twenty years in the field fall apart on cases like this. scully : i'm fine, mulder. i can handle it. 
 the body was shipped on my flight. i should be here within the hour.  i've got a flight back to minneapolis booked for tonight. but i might cancel.  you think you find a way to deal with these things. in med school, you develop a clinical detachment to death. in your fbi training, you are confronted with cases, the most terrible and violent cases. you think you can look into the face of pure evil. and then you find yourself paralysed by it.  no. was i?  probably as another way of trying to detach myself from it.  no. kosseff: is it your partner? is there a problem with trust - scully : no. i trust him as much as anyone. i'd trust him with my life. no.  i know it sounds crazy, but i don't want him to know how much this is bothering me. i don't want him to think he has to protect me.  i had a meeting.  what did you find?  who? examiner: he said he was an agent working out of minneapolis. i told him you were out, but had a flight booked back tonight. scully : was it agent mulder? did you tell him about the print?  hi, it's me. we got a print.  no. i'm coming back tonight.  i'm okay with it, mulder. you can use my help. mulder: always! scully : mulder? you or agent bocks didn't call here looking for me earlier, did you? i'm okay. separator couldn't have been dead for more than 12 hours. she straightens up. during the following we see that she and mulder are standing over what is obviously a body under the tarp. sheriff john oakes is standing on the other side of the body, while uniformed police are searching the area in the background. everyone carries umbrellas. throughout the discussion oakes, a worried-looking man in around his early forties, has an air of "i know this sounds crazy but" about him -- he is well shook up, nervous, but serious in his suggestions.  any evidence to substantiate those rumours, sheriff oakes?  many homicides include victim desecration.  more rumours.  any idea who jerry stevens was with out here?  theories like that are why i can't take him seriously.  mulder, i got the impression you didn't believe him either.  i think he incited your imagination. i think this case is nothing more than a murderer taking advantage of local folklore. i mean there's nothing odd about - she is cut off as something falls onto her umbrella, knocking it. other thuds are heard. cut to shot from above. frogs are falling heavily onto the pair's umbrellas. cut back to the agents -- they look bemused, mulder looking up, shielding his face, scully ducking, definitely startled. the thudding stops. cut to shot of the ground -- many frogs hopping around their feet. mulder, toads just fell from the sky!   the national weather service says there are tornadoes in northern massachusetts. the wind probably picked up the animals into the storm. . cu library card -- last borrower "dave duran". mulder: "witch hunt: a history of the occult in america". 
 last checked out to a dave duran. ...fbi, we'd like to speak with a dave duran... dave, hearing his name, makes a mad dash for the window, clambering over a bench and knocking equipment everywhere as he tries to scramble out head-first. mulder pelts round after him, catches him as he is half-way through, pulls him back by the legs. what made you go to a place you heard was a witches' altar? dave turns his head, we follow his gaze and see kate and andrea standing together in a corner. he looks back to scully, who is sitting opposite him. why did you take the book?  you never thought what?   the fbi recently concluded a seven-year study and found little or no evidence of the existence of occult conspiracies.   look, if the number of murders attributed to occult conspiracies were true, it would mean thousands of people killing tens of thousands of people a year, without evidence, without being exposed... it would be the greatest criminal conspiracy in the history of civilisation. ausbury turns to his colleagues, then back. he walks towards mulder and scully.  mulder, this is mass hysteria. and our presence here on a routine homicide only gives validity to their fears of occult murder. mulder stops drinking, pauses, notices something. cu to shot of water swirling down drain of drinking fountain. what's wrong with it?  that isn't possible.  others? mulder looks quickly at her, then back to shannon why don't we just wait and see what her parents have to say? the car stops, they get out and walk towards the front door. they get about halfway along the path when the door opens and jim ausbury hurries out to meet them. mrs ausbury is visible behind him. she stays in the doorway, hugging her cardigan to her. she wanted to remain with friends. and... under the circumstances, we thought it best.  mrs ausbury? er, perhaps you'd like a glass of water. we see mrs ausbury, overcome, sobbing quietly. she manages a tiny nod. she is barely audible. mrs ausbury... your daughter has not accused you of any involvement in these activities.  do you have any idea why shannon might have said these things?  have you ever known shannon to be pregnant?  have you ever had another child?  at eight years old?  did you see anybody leaving the room?  did you hear the door open?   excuse me... she puts her pen down on a bench, then walks away with mulder. they speak quietly. she says it's to block the smell of formaldehyde.  well, i've got to admit there are some oddities to her story.  well, the man she replaced has taken two sick days in a fifteen-year career. the morning of jerry stevens' murder mr kingary  developed necrotizing fasciitis.  i know. and when i questioned the other staff members about mrs paddock's background, no-one can even recall hiring her.  oh, look, i'm even getting caught up in this. i mean i'm... i'm sure that mrs paddock's arrival and the teacher's sickness is just a coincidence. and the fact that no-one can recall hiring her -- it's just a bureaucratic oversight.   clean. 41. int. night. paddock's officepaddock's hand over the candle. groans, breathing, shaking, sweating as before. mulder... the school... i'm in trouble. we hear a buzz of static, and she is cut off  mulder! what's wrong?  no, i didn't touch the phone. 
 i checked on mrs paddock's background. i don't think she's involved. cu of mulder's face as he pauses, cut to follow his torch as it shows the cellar door is ajar. he looks at scully, pulls out his gun, advances carefully to the door. mulder knocks it aside, goes downstairs. scully follows.cellar, ausbury residencecu of handcuffs, still attached to the bannister but now empty. ausbury has vanished. mulder and scully reach the cellar floor and shine their lights around. mulder's light picks out a crushed and bloody skeleton, folded in on itself, about a metre away. they go over to it, both crouch down. my god.  you think that's some kind of acid? mulder turns, shines his torch on the stair posts.  that's impossible! it would take a large python hours to consume and weeks to digest a human being.   there's a python in paddock's room. mulder.  mrs paddock? what happened? paddock is bleeding from the nose. her glasses have been knocked to the floor beside her, she is clutching her abdomen. she speaks feebly and is wild-eyed. just stay still. we'll be back. she hurries after mulder. cu on paddock, lit by storm. she stops shaking and lies almost inanimately still.hall outside conference roommulder and scully approach the conference room door. scully knocks it open, mulder enters, gun at the ready. the room appears empty. satisfied it appears safe, they both go in. oh god... mulder, did you see his face?  it was as if something else had control of him.  mrs paddock?  mulder. mulder goes over to her. she is at the blackboard. mulder shines his torch where she is looking. there is writing on the board. we pan with the light along the words... "goodbye. it's been nice working with you." mulder and scully look at each other. the power suddenly returns. they switch off their torches and look around the room, which is a mess, stools, racks etc knocked over, equipment smashed and broken. they turn back to the board, then back to each other.[fade to black]separator  drug and alcohol tests came back negative. car shows no evidence of brake, steering or any other mechanical failure.  both at the same base?  wasn't there a riot there about a month ago?  why did the military contact us?  she doesnt believe it was suicide.  it looks like some kind of ritual symbol.  mrs. mcalpin believes voodoo was behind her husband's death?  did he ever discuss with you what went on there? what his duties included?  was he ever treated for depression or stress?   come on, mulder.   lets go, mulder.  two of your men have died in the past two weeks allegedly of self-inflicted injuries.  but your soldiers aren't in combat.  how so?  so your men are getting the brunt of the refugees' frustration?  i'd also like to examine private mcalpin's body. i have a signed consent from his wife.  so they pronounced him at the scene?  mulder, i need to speak with you.  how did you know?  somebody stole mcalpin's body and replaced it with what looks like a dog's corpse.  somehow, bauvais must have switched the bodies.  well, then he had somebody else do it.  i was only suggesting that whoever did it was clever and thorough. i wasnt suggesting that some kind of spirit did it.  mulder, voodoo only works by instilling fear in its believers. you saw how bauvais tried to intimidate me. i'll admit the power of suggestion is considerable but this is no more magic than a pair of fuzzy dice.  private mcalpin? 
 hes nonverbal, nonresponsive to voice, touch or pain. the neurologists suspect he suffered a severe concussion resulting in amnesia.  well, obviously, he never left. dr. foyle made a gross mistake when he signed the death certificate. its not the first time something like thats happened.  yeah.  electrolytes, white and red counts are all normal. except this is strange. the lab detected trace levels of tetrodotoxin in his blood.  that's a poison found in the liver and reproductive organs of puffer fish-- a japanese delicacy.  you have a theory how it got into his blood?  well, i hope you don't intend to tell robin mcalpin that she married one?  but, mulder, its a lethal poison.  well, zombie or not, jack mcalpin is alive.  why did they bury private guttierez here? 
 too late?  don't the police intervene?  mulder .. 
  maybe i should kiss a few and find out if one is guttierez. 
 how do you get out of the camp?  what about your parents? are your parents at the camp?  mulder, certain frog species secrete a substance called bufotoxin. it's chemically similar to what we found in private mcalpins blood. i think we should ask bauvais what he's doing with those frogs.   whats going on?  colonel wharton sanctioned beatings of the refugees?  why hasn't anybody stepped forward or filed a complaint?  well, we don't know what happened to him but there is a medical explanation for his condition.  sounds like an old wives tale.  think hes telling the truth?  hes superstitious, and superstition breeds fear. its what voodoo is all about. its just as irrational as avoiding a crack in the sidewalk.  we suspect it was an act of retaliation.  for your mistreatment of the detainees.  physical abuse of political refugees is a prosecutable crime under international law.  then there is no official policy of harassment?  sorry, mulder, theres a big difference between nasty looks and raising the dead.  ah!!!  more scare tactics.   no. its nothing. 
  you don't understand. i've been on hold for half an hour. i'm trying to locate a private dunham. 
  yeah. yeah. thanks. 
  mulder, i just got through to dunhams barracks. mulder? your door's unlocked. 
 mulder, listen to this. dunham's been awol since last night... 
 mulder? 
 oh, god. 
  yeah.  yeah. it's dunham.  why did you sign the confession?   i'm fine. it's just a headache. 
 he said it himself. he signed a confession.   thats bauvais. and wharton? they must have known each other when wharton served in haiti.  mulder dunham and guttierez both filed complaints against colonel wharton. they both cited incidents of abuse --- dates, times 
 it wasnt bauvais.  those men were about to testify against colonel wharton. he stopped them before they did.  thank you.  is this a complete list?  there was a boy. his name was bonaparte. chester bonaparte? separator an agent mulder was brought here tonight?  i'm a federal agent!   there's no time for this. a man is dying.
 i'm dana scully, i'm agent mulder's partner. what are his vitals? 
 no... you've got to get him out of the tub.  you've got to listen to me! if you keep him in there, you're going to kill him! the cold is the only thing that's keeping him alive. 
 i was just down the street. someone fired more shots at the white house last night.  what are you working on?  sent by whom?  why?  sounds like the work of militant right-to-lifers.  why would somebody send them to you?  what did you find? 
 triplets?  what? what about the man you arrested, this, uh, preacher?  would you recognize his face?  i've got a bad feeling about this case, mulder.  well, nothing about it makes sense. we've got three deaths of identical victims, no bodies, a virtual non-suspect...  you don't even know who sent you that information. i mean, we've been set up before. 
 more victims?  there's twenty four messages responding to the ad. the first caller has seen the man in the photo in syracuse. 
 who are they?  are you saying these men are clones?  if you've known about this for a year, why hasn't anything been done?  who?  agents scully and mulder, we're with the f.b.i. 
 may we come in, doctor dickens?  i'll call the paramedics... 
 i'll call you back. you okay?
 okay... 
 where?  how are you feeling?  maybe we should've dropped this case when you were told.  our friend from the c.i.a. is about as unbelievable as his story... as is everything about this case. i mean, whatever happened to "trust no one," mulder?  why would a man with his experience need our help... and how could he let a man that he's been looking so hard for slip away so easily? you know, that doctor wasn't running away from us, mulder, he was running away from agent chapel.  paranoid. have you stopped to consider that maybe it was agent chapel who killed that field agent in syracuse? 
 damn it, mulder, that is not my job. you'll pursue a case at the expense of everything, to the point of insanity, and expect me to follow you. there has to be somewhere to draw the line. an f.b.i. agent died because of our pursuit of this case.  i have to show you something. i got these a week ago.i stepped in something last night that ate clean through the sole. now, maybe i'm being paranoid, but it was in the exact spot where this man chapel said the doctor escaped.
 an autopsy bay?  there's no penetrating knife or gunshot wounds. no ligature marks or abrasions from strangulation. the toxicologocial is clean... and the blood work... well, the blood work is strange. 
 well, there's evidence of polycythemia, excessive production of red blood cells. 
 extremely. the doctor who made this report has it in here that the blood was curdled like jelly. as if something caused the blood to thicken or clot prior to death.  possibly a coagulating agent introduced into the body, but it would've shown up on the toxicological. 
 i don't know, mulder, i... there was a doctor's bag i took as evidence from the apartment. 
 well, skinner's going to want to know why you didn't file your report. what're you going to say?  mulder, it's me. i need to talk to you immediately. i've got some new information on this case. mulder, i think i'm in danger. i'm in my apartment and i think i've been followed.
 mulder, it's me. i just left my aparment and i don't think i've been followed. i'm going to be staying at the vacation village motor lodge off the i-90 in germantown. now, by the time you reach me, i should have some very important information for you regarding this case. 
 wait. stop! federal agent! put your hands against the wall. do it!  put you hands against the wall... now.   sir...   these men are to be held in maximum security protective custody. no visitors, no press, no anybody... okay?  i'll let you know when i figure it out myself. 
 i'd like a single for one night, please. separator no, sorry. 
 it's a wrong number. where have you been, mulder? i've been trying to get a hold of you.  why didn't you call when you got my message?  put your hands against the wall.  i said put your hands against the wall!  do it!  i don't know who you are.  i said keep your hands up. 
 i don't know what you're talking about. 
 yeah.  i'm okay. 
 mulder...  i was discharged an hour ago and i asked to come here. have they found anything yet?  maybe... but the water's thirty-six degrees.  mulder, why didn't you tell me on the phone that it was her?  why not?  are you sure that it's your sister? 
 because back at the motel, mulder, it was you but, but it wasn't you.  well, then who is this man and what does he...  is that what you're going to tell skinner?  mulder, it's me.  mulder, i think you should come back as soon as you can.  it's your sister. we just pulled her body out of the river.mulder, i'm so sorry.
 yeah. you know... whatever you're feeling, you can't blame yourself.
 no, not yet. 
 what is it?  after being treated for smoke inhalation, agent mulder was released from samaritan hospital in satisfactory condition. at his request, the abortion clinic where he was found has been searched repeatedly but the bodies of the women he insists perished there were not found. my report on this case remains incomplete. many aspects continue to defy explanation including the identities of the identical men and women. agent mulder's claim of alien origins cannot be substantiated. the man suspected in their disappearances is still at large... ...and has now been charged with the death of f.b.i. special agent barret weiss, whose body has been quarantined at the u.s. medical research institute of infectious diseases. weiss' cause of death involved a thickening of the blood. it is now believed that he was subjected to a virulent strain of virus whose origin and behavior are also unexplainable. it is my hope that further analysis of this contagion will aid in the solution of this case.this is a retrovirus? was the thickening of agent weiss' blood an immunological response to the virus? 
 what did you do to it?  so the virus is inhibited by cold.  we pulled a body from the river yesterday that was chilled near freezing. when it started to thaw, it began to corrode.  if you find out anything else, you let me know as soon as possible. 
 sir? i'm sorry to come unannounced, sir, but your assistant wasn't at her desk.
 may we speak off the record, sir?  agent mulder. he's gone. i don't know, i was hoping that you could tell me or help me to find out.  he told me the same thing but i don't think this matter with his sister is settled. sir, is there any way that you can reach him through unofficial channels? 
 please? 
 agent mulder has saved my life!  where is mulder?  where's mulder? i need to know, damn it!  i'm losing time! 
 how did you get this?  i'm dana scully, i'm agent mulder's partner. what are his vitals? 
 no... you've got to get him out of the tub.  you've got to listen to me! if you keep him in there, you're going to kill him! the cold is the only thing that's keeping him alive. 
 you don't know what you're dealing with here! agent mulder has been exposed to a retrovirus resulting in hyperviscosity syndrome.  his blood has thickened...  that's why his heart is failing! 
 no, the only thing saving him right now is the hypermetabolic state induced by the cold. now, if you don't do what i'm saying, you are going to kill him! let's get him out of that tub now.
 clear!  clear!  i want a digoxin 0.1 milligram i.v. hang a heparin drip at 1,000 units per hour. and get him two units of fresh frozen plasma now. 
 he's going to make it. 
 transfusions and an aggressive treatment with anti-viral agents have resulted in a steady but gradual improvement in agent mulder's condition. blood tests have confirmed his exposure to the still unidentified retrovirus whose origin remains a mystery. the search team that found agent mulder has located neither the missing submarine nor the man he was looking for. several aspects of this case remain unexplained, suggesting the possibility of paranormal phenomena... but i am convinced that to accept such conclusions is to abandon all hope of understanding the scientific events behind them. many of the things i have seen have challenged my faith and my belief in an ordered universe......but this uncertainty has only strengthened my need to know, to understand, to apply reason to those things which seem to defy it. it was science that isolated the retrovirus agent mulder was exposed to, and science that allowed us to understand its behavior. and ultimately, it was science that saved agent mulder's life.hey. how you feeling?
 a naval reconnaissance squad found and choppered you to eisenhower field. thanks for ditching me. did you find what you were looking for? separator so you saw nothing when the window broke? no one outside?  okay. thank you. 
 they claim they didn't see anything.  what the janitors describe sounds more like a sonic boom.  mulder, if you're still suggesting that the elephant did this, it just defies logic. somebody would have seen it.  an invisible elephant?  have they determined what he died of?  ambrose?  what're you looking for, mulder?  excuse me. we're looking for willa ambrose.  thank you.  miss ambrose?  i'm agent dana scully.  this is agent mulder. we're with the fbi.  well, a federal employee was fatally injured last night, and there seems to be a case developing around the elephant that escaped from your zoo.  no, i was just wondering why such a small pen for such a large animal.  would he be vindictive enough to let ganesha go as an act of sabotage?  w.a.o?  and you consider that inhumane treatment?  according to fbi files, you've been arrested over a dozen times for activities involving the kidnapping of circus and zoo animals.  hmmm. were you involved in the liberation of ganesha?  preoccupied with what?  will they win?  i thought you said she rescued this gorilla.  even if that means trampling a man to death?  well, we found our suspects.  well, you heard the man - "all animals should run free."  well, the lights they were using at the construction site were mercury vapor, 10,000 candlepower. they can restrict a man's ability to adjust his vision to the dark. and their security cameras are poor quality. a gray elephant may not have registered an image on tape in the dim light in front of the building.  these guys are dedicated to exactly this kind of activity, unabashedly. did you check out the night vision camera they had lying on the shelf?  it wouldn't surprise me if they tried to capitalize on their success.  by liberating another animal. willa ambrose said that the zoo was in trouble financially. a loss of another big exhibit could shut them down entirely.  and where are you going?  mulder, it's me. i was right. i just followed the kid from the w.a.o. to the zoo. he's just about to make it over the fence.  there's a member of the w.a.o. on the premises.  what's going on? 
 you have no idea what he was doing at the zoo?  what if i said i saw this camera sitting up there on the shelf yesterday?  a tiger is missing, and a member of your organization is dead. for such a principled man, you show an amazing lack of emotion.  well, if i find evidence that he was releasing those animals under your orders, i'll make sure you spend the rest of your life behind bars. 
 you know, that guy really pisses me off.  yeah.  have they found the tiger yet?  what?  you saw his body, mulder. that kid was mauled to death. he had deep claw marks on his chest and on his back.  she speaks to you?  is this who you wanted to speak to, mulder?  why would she be afraid of the light?  i hope you know what you're getting us into, mulder.  this isn't exactly in my job description.  okay.  you're right, mulder. the signs in the uterus and ovaries are unmistakable.  this animal had been pregnant.  there's evidence of hyperplasia and the corpus luteum is ruptured.  how'd the tiger get all the way across town without being spotted?  i just finished up in the infirmary. a sheriff's deputy came looking to serve you papers. i think it's about sophie.  you want to see something interesting? 
 i was looking for a pen to finish my report in willa's office, and it was in her drawer.  do you have any idea what he would have been doing at the zoo?  we have a witness who says that you visited kyle's office yesterday. is that true?  for what purpose?  did you ask him to help you take sophie to prevent her from being taken from you?  but he helped you to rescue her originally, isn't that correct? he had a connection to you and to this animal that went back several years.  but you asked him anyway ... to help you.  then what was he doing here last night, and why did he give you this note? 
 did he make a habit of visiting the zoo?  you think she's telling the truth?  well, kyle lang's death and the disappearance of the animal match the previous incidents.  and you've been pushing this alien abduction angle.  you mean to losing sophie?  you think she killed him?  even wait atop a stack of crates for a former lover to walk underneath?  looks like you're in a hurry.  i'm afraid there is. i found evidence that kyle died a wrongful death. he was hit with a cattle prod. there's gonna be an investigation so i have to read you your rights.  ed meecham took sophie?  where is she, willa?  mulder? mulder? 
 sorry. lie still.  lie down.  can we get a paramedic in here?  ed meecham's been arrested. we picked him up on the way to boise. that's how we found you here.  who did?  she's outside. she's going in to make a statement about kyle lang.   what happened here? separator what was so urgent that you couldn't tell me over the phone?  missing?  you're saying that a ship and its entire crew just vanished?  well, they must have reported what happened.  what's wrong with him?  mulder, wh ...?  excuse me. is this lt. richard harper?  and he's been positively identified?  well, then i think there's been some kind of a mistake here. according to this report, lt. harper is 28 years old.  why hasn't a systemic workup been ordered on this patient? 
 can you tell me what's going on here? how can you explain what happened to this man?  i am a medical doctor and i would like to see the autopsy reports on the remaining victims.  something very strange is going on here, mulder.  yeah, i saw somebody, but whether it was actually the lieutenant ...  he looked about 90 years old. off by about half a century. you don't seem too surprised.  another bermuda triangle?   a wrinkle in time? wh ...  it was a, uh, a program during world war ii to render battleships invisible to radar. but then the manhattan project heated up, and it was discontinued and most of the scientists were relocated to los alamos.  where were they sent?  are you suggesting that the philadelphia experiment used alien technology?  that's not possible, mulder, not without defying all laws of, of time and space.  wormholes?  and that's what you think happened to lt. harper? mulder: i'll find out soon enough. i' m booked on an 8: 30 flight to norway. have you let skinner in on this?   i'm going with you. if that really was lt. harper, i want to know what happened to him. what is it, mulder? why are they so afraid? my father spent the better part of his life at sea. he had a healthy respect for the ocean, but he never feared it. i see fear in these men's eyes. (a man at a nearby table speaks up and approaches them.) you're american.  why is everyone else so afraid to go there?  what stories?  a meteorite?  feeling any better?  what?  (smiling) oh.  mulder. they almost look mummified.  except for this strange residue. (she reaches with a knife to scrape some of the white residue off a dead man's hand, but when she touches it, the hand breaks off. they hear an engine starting.) what was that?  nope.  no. what is it?  so we can't even send a distress signal. 
 well, the radio's dead too.  his skull's been fractured.  captain barclay, um, according to your log, shortly after the navigation system failed, several of your crew members saw something in the sea - a growing light.  do you have any idea what it might have been?  what happened?  it's ok, captain. you can take it easy. we're gonna do whatever we can to help you out.  yeah, i'd have to agree with you. that blow that killed halverson was delivered with considerable strength, and he can't even hold a glass with two hands.  the ship's log says something about four norweigian sailors who were picked up when their vessel had sunk.  mulder, captain barclay is dead. i don't know how it happened, it was just in the last 15 minutes. it's just like those men below. it's more than rapid aging, mulder. it's almost as if he's turning into a pillar of salt.  well, it appears to be crystalline, but beyond that ...?  mmmm. i just fell asleep.  no. i'm up. 
 mulder, what happened to you? time acceleration is an equation, mulder, a theory.  well, whatever it is, it isn't a time warp. none of us has directly observed any of the phenomenon recorded in the ship's log. there is no hard evidence to indicate that this is a time warp.  well, if this is rapid aging phenomena, then why hasn't our hair greyed or started to fall out?  mulder, what do you know about free radicals?  they are highly reactive chemicals containing extra electrons. now, they can attack dna proteins, they can cause our body tissue and cell membranes to oxidize.  it's the prevailing theory on how our bodies age.  this is just a theory. but what if this ship is drifting towards another massive metallic source, like a meteor. maybe it's way down deep in the ocean or embedded into an iceberg. but the two could effectively be acting as positive and negative terminals with the ocean itself being a kind of giant battery. that level of electromagnetic energy could be exciting the free radicals and effectively oxidizing every piece of matter in its field. 
 captain barclay said the ship was bleeding. 
 mulder. where are we going?  why would they hold up here? 
 contaminated how?  well, if you're right, then captain barclay's drinking binge is what kept him alive.  it doesn't sound like there's very much left. 
 trondheim! 
 look, we have a lot of work to do here. i'm gonna need blood and urine samples from both of you.  we found out what caused the aging.  it kept olafsson alive this long, maybe it will slow the process in us.   it has been 18 hours, 45 minutes since the onset of symptoms. rudimentary blood tests have revealed impossibly high concentrations of sodium choloride - salt - though the contaminated water itself is not saline. it appears to catalyze existing body fluids, causing massive and rapid cellular damage. the untainted water has slowed the degenerative progression in trondheim and me, but mulder has fared less well, perhaps because of the dehydration he suffered on the way here. 
 i'll be right back. 
 if you've got something to say, say it but don't hover behind me like that.  then maybe we should double his rations.  we don't know that for sure. not yet.  who are you to decide?   mulder's urinalysis continues to indicate his kidneys' failure to excrete the substance i'm calling "heavy salt". whether the untainted water taken from the sewage system is even helping him at all is unclear. what does remain clear to me is that i can't give up trying. 

 trondheim! what are you doing?  there's enough to keep us all alive for a few more days.  don't come any closer.  trondheim, listen to me. the navy knows where we are. they know these coordinates and they're gonna be here soon. so why don't we just go back up into the mess hall ... 
 trondheim! trondheim! 
 trondheim's locked himself in the sewage hold. he's backflushed all the water and he's keeping it for himself. i looked everywhere and this is all i could find.  it's sardine juice, half a dozen lemons and uh, the water from a snow globe.  it's not evian, but ...  no, mulder!  that's more reason for you to drink it.  don't do this, mulder.  well, there isn't much liquid to make a difference anyway.  no. 
 what was that?  mulder ... the water. 

 mulder ... when they found me, after the doctors and even my family had given up, i experienced something that i never told you about. even now it's hard to find the words. but there's one thing i'm certain of. as certain as i am of this life, we have nothing to fear when it's over. 
 you should sleep. 
 scully:  agent fox mulder lost consciousness at approximately 4:30 this morning, the 12th of march. there is nothing more i can do for him, or for myself. supplies are exhausted, no food or liquid consumed for over 24 hours. the outer hull most probably flooded, though for now the inner hull is supporting the ship's mass. among halverson's belongings, i found a children's book of norse legends. from what i can tell, the pictures show the end of the world - not in a sudden firestorm of damnation as the bible teaches us, but in a slow covering blanket of snow. first the moon and the stars will be lost in a dense white fog, then the rivers and the lakes and the sea will freeze over. and finally a wolf named skoll will open his jaws and eat the sun, sending the world into an everlasting night. i think i hear the wolf at the door.


  mmmm. yeah.  mulder? where is he? 
 whatever caused this is still out there. i have to talk to a naval liaison. we have to salvage the ship in order to study the salt ... separatorseparator how?  and did the inquest come up with anything unusual?  did you learn about wind in kindergarten?  pulled? by whom?  so you're saying that, uh, a ghost killed teddy holvey.  has anyone checked the camera that took this photo - the lens or the pressure plate?  mulder, this information is the same reason why you'll see a newspaper photo with jesus' face appearing in the, in the foliage of an elm tree. it's a chance occurrence of light and shadow. 
 i've seen some pretty slippery two-year-olds.  mrs. holvey, at the time of the accident, did you have any hired help?  what is she saying?  sure, it's a swastika.  you're right. i saw her drawing it.  well, i think this boy needs as much protection as he can get - but just not from ghosties or beasties. take a look at this.  have you ever heard of munchausen by proxy?  it's when a parent or caretaker brings harm to a child by inducing medical symptoms, usually as a way of getting attention or status. if you take a look at teddy holvey's medical history, you'll see that he was admitted to various hospitals ten times during the two years that he was alive. that's once every three months.  each time they were unable to determine the cause of the illness.  well, the family moved around a lot because of steve's job, and records take time to transfer from hospital to hospital. but this kind of abuse is not limited to just one child, so i checked out charlie's history as well. 
 since his brother was born, which is right when holvey's mother-in-law moved in. often the perpetrator of munchausen by proxy will view the child as evil. the old woman would be a likely candidate, but it could be any family member.  and you suspect golda?  are you familiar with munchausen by proxy?  teddy's medical records have raised some questions.  i'd like to interview your son charlie, mr. holvey, but with a professional counsellor. 
 what was that?  mulder! 
 find anything?  looks like ash.  the holveys said earlier that they had some problems with the wiring of the house. it could be from the motor shorted out ...  well, what do you think it is?  well, before we do anything, i think we should get charlie out of this house. i just put a call into a social worker who's gonna come down and make a report.  not when a child is in danger ... and not after they see two dead roosters in the old woman's bedroom.  without a doubt.  what did you do?  what?  what do you mean?  where are we going?  india?  wait a second. nothing just materializes out of thin air.  yeah, but that was a parable.  too bad you didn't take a picture. you could have run it through your computer and seen the entire last supper. 
 yeah, that or somebody activated the remote control.  well, who was standing outside when the garage door opened unexpectedly on us yesterday?  he says he doesn't remember anything. now, the coroner's preliminary report states that she died of a heart attack ... but those wounds, mulder, i'd swear it looked like her eyes were pecked out.  what is it?  you think this was a ritual killing?  protection against what?  mrs. holvey?  what did he say?  punish you for what?  i think we should talk to charlie and find out what happened in your mother's bedroom. 
 mrs. holvey?  don't restrain him. let's turn him on his side so he doesn't aspirate. charlie, you're going to be ok. 
 he's resting. how's mrs. holvey?  the doctor said that charlie had some kind of a siezure, but they've been unable to determine a cause. 
 is that mrs. holvey?  there. i think she's got charlie with her. 

  nurse!  who? charlie?  why?  you're saying mrs. holvey left here with a ghost?  but, mulder ...  what are you gonna do?  mrs. holvey? 
 hello? 
 charlie?  are you all right?  we're ok. how's charlie? 
separator according to my briefing, the prisoners escaped by hiding in a laundry cart.  and they're both serving life terms. murder convictions. (the guard picks up the phone near the door and the end of the stairwell.) it is.  i don't know. looks like some kind of de-con situation. (the door in back of them swings open and more guards walk in, led by u.s. marshal tapia.) that's right. we have orders to work with the federal marshals on this manhunt.  we don't know why we've been sent here. maybe if we talked to the warden or someone...  why?  it came out of skinner's office.  no, why?  i've got the same feeling, mulder. (mulder looks back at the room with the containment-suited doctors. i can try. where are you going?  who are you?  are you the prison doctor?  who do you work for?  you work for the centers for disease control? what are you doing here? sir! i'm a medical doctor. i want to know what's going on here.sir, if you don't let me in, a lot of people in washington are going to find out that you're conducting a secret quarantine in here.
 so am i. 
 how many people are infected?  any deaths?  what are the chances the men who escaped are infected? 
 mulder, it's me. i'm starting to get a picture of what's going on here. 
 there seems to be some kind of... ...deadly contagion sweeping the lockdown population. well, from what i've seen so far, thirty-six hours after infection, deadly. 
 the exact nature of this thing... ...or how it is spread is unclear. so is their exposure to it and any danger they might pose. not until i get some answers.  i'm a federal agent, sir.  to my partner, who needs to know if the men he's pursuing are infected.  well, then i want to see charts and i want access to the infirmary.  i need to know what these men are dying from. you said this was some kind of flu-like illness. what are these? 
 do all of the victims have these boils? you're burning the bodies, why?doctor osbourne, wait! yes, i'm trying to trace the origin of a package that was sent to robert torrence at the cumberland state correctional facilit in virginia. y, yeah. the packaging number is d-d-p-one-one-two-one-four-eight. sure, i'll hold. yeah.the package was sent from wichita, kansas? did you record the name of the sender?could you check that again, please?thank you.
 what do you know about pinck pharmaceuticals? 
 they sent a package to a prisoner here who may have been the first victim of the contagion. 
 no, it's empty. 
 that sounds like what i'm finding on all the victims in here. do you know what that means, mulder? 
 i'm on it. 
 why? what's going on?  what the hell is going on? 
 by who, the c.d.c.?  pinck pharmaceuticals. you work for pinck pharmaceuticals? how did this happen? disappeared how?  like this? i found this buried in one of the dead prisoners.
 is this what caused the outbreak?  so the contagion only spreads when the pustules erupt and the larvae that are expelled burrow into the new host. 
 mulder, they're enforcing a full quarantine. 
 one of the epidimiologists who claimed to be with the c.d.c. told me that this was no accident. pinck pharmaceuticals is here trying to clean it up quietly......and the government would have to know about it.
 why else would the national guard be here? they're protecting pinck pharmacuetical. the public? 
 mulder, we can't leak this, not until we know more. the fugitive that you're looking for...he might not even be infected.
 if this gets out... ...prematurely, the panic is going to spread faster than the contagion. mulder, we can't let this be known.
 what if someone dies because we didn't? there'll be a time for the truth, mulder, but this isn't it.
 yeah. i'm okay. all i want you to worry about is capturing that fugitive. take care of yourself, mulder.
 and if i am? 
 how long will this take?  what? 
 what do you want me to do? 
 why did you confide in me?  how can i prove it?  what are you doing?  you don't work for the c.d.c. where's doctor osbourne?he told me what happened here. well, we'll leave that up to others to decide.  mulder... i think everything here is under control. 
 yeah. have you found the second prisoner? he's alive? mulder, listen to me. everything here has been destroyed. any evidence whatsoever of a cover-up has been incinerated. that prisoner is the last man who can possibly connect the conspirators. if you want the truth, mulder, he's going to have to make a statement. 
 we can't prove a thing, mulder. they've made sure of it. 
 the costa rican government just faxed me the report on the missing scientist. his name is robert torrence, the same as our prisoner. it was their failsafe in case it ever came to this so they could blame it on a simple postal error. a mistake.
 come on, let's go. 
separator two apparent abductions in less than a month, and then this one last night. according to my contact, the richmond pd has hit a brick wall so i told her we'd come down and have a look.  her name is kelly ryan. she was one of my students when i was teaching at the academy. she's just been bumped up to detective, and she's a little nervous about her supervisor finding out the fbi are involved. 
 kelly?  hi.  this is agent mulder.  uh, the heat register.  what is it?  was patrick newirth a smoker?  well, that's strange for someone who works for a tobacco company.  could be the residue from burnt human flesh. 
 what are you thinking, mulder?  you're doing just fine. 
 having a little fun?  spontaneous human combustion?  let's just forget for the moment that there's no scientific theory to support it.  darkness covers a multitude of sins.  neat trick. for your birthday, i'll buy you a utility belt. 
 look at this, mulder.  margaret wysnecki, age 66. widowed, retired from laramie tobacco where she worked production line for 36 years. tobacco? patrick newirth worked for morley tobacco, didn't he?  yeah, you're probably right. the first missing person, gail anne lambert, was an engineer for polarity magnetics. they didn't find any prints in here or anywhere else in the house. what makes you think the prints on the bulb mean anything? that's the same day she disappeared.  and gail anne lambert ... uh, no it doesn't say anything here that puts her anywhere near the richmond train station.  well, even so, what's the significance?  and whatever happened to spontaneous human combustion?  what happened here, kelly?  well, you were just doing your job.  you just make sure you hang onto this case. i'm sure something will turn up. 
 these ideas of yours, mulder, you care to share them?  you don't have a clue, do you?  all right, where does this leave us?  how?  those are the dates that margaret wysnecki and patrick newirth disappeared.  that's assuming we're looking for a guy.  it could be any one of these people, mulder ... or none of them. i've gone through the entire week and i'm still not sure how you expect to find him.  again?  chances are, he's not walking around carrying a sign with an arrow on it.  looking at the floor.  probably the same reason he spends his whole afternoon in the train station.  that's where the first victim worked. looks like it's been closed up. 
 we're agents mulder and scully with the fbi. we're looking for a man who may have worked here. 
 you mean he's not any more?  subatomic particles.  except no one knows if they truly exist.  this is a particle accelerator.  exactly what happened here?  how did he survive?  well, this looks like the same kind of material that they found at each of the other crime scenes. maybe what we're dealing with is some kind of spontaneous human combustion.  what do you think it is? 
 well, whatever it is, we have to find him.  there's no sign of him, mulder. maybe he's moved on. what are you looking at?  well, maybe the exposure affected his mind. nonsensical repetitive behavior is a common trait of mental illness.  i called detective ryan. she's having the prints on the lightbulbs checked against banton's.  no, i only told her that he was a possible suspect, and that it was a bit too early to get her hopes up, and that right now we have more questions than we do answers.  like a motive, like a murder weapon, like ... 
 what do you mean?  looking for his shadow? 
 the accident in the lab ... the quanta bombardment ... you believe that altered you physically?  but it has something to do with dark matter.  that's how you killed gail anne lambert?  agent mulder and i are here strictly in an unofficial capacity.  we were curious about the unexplained nature of the case.  come on, mulder, let's go. 
 what do you mean?  ambition? she's a woman trying to survive the boys' club, mulder. believe me, i know how she feels.  look. the fact is, we have no jurisdiction here. we were called in as a favor.  i'm sure all the necessary precautions will be taken.  you don't believe all this paranoia about brain sucking, do you?  mulder, as brilliant as dr. banton may be, he is also clearly delusional. he demonstrated just about every textbook indicator back there.  look, i don't know how to explain it, but that's not our job. i don't know what else we should do.  mulder.  richmond pd had two officers outside watching the entrance. they didn't see anybody come in.  three? the power was disconnected at a substation two blocks from here. somebody posing as the city engineer.  somebody from the government coming for dr. banton?  that's what detective ryan thinks.  she was in charge of dr. banton's transfer and arraignment this morning. she's in some pretty hot water.  where? mulder, wait. where are we going?  i heard him say a lot of things.  wait a second. that's still just a theory, and it's a pretty wild one at that.  and apparently so does whoever it is that tried to take him last night.  we're not the first ones here, mulder, that's detective ryan's car.  mulder.  what's that noise?  mulder. 
 he must have killed her and then killed himself.  by who? i'm not sure how to feel about this, mulder. she was my student, and she came to me for help.  this shouldn't have happened. this never should have happened.  doing what?  i'm not sure i follow you.  do they have any leads or know where he might be?  but you do.  well, if banton's not dead, then where is he?separator come on, mulder, don't you see what they're doing? they're wasting our time. they're sending us on some kind of a wild goose chase.  i'm not questioning the case's legitimacy, just their motives in assigning it to us. i mean, doesn't it bother you at all that they're undermining your work?  yes, i read that report. she claims that she saw some kind of a-a foxfire spirit. i'm surprised she didn't call oprah as soon as she got off the phone with the police.   those are only legends, mulder.  this could have been made by anything-- a bonfire.  i didnt think anything gave you nightmares.  what's this, mulder?  well, sheriff arens, a man is missing.  how do you mean?  did he have many chances?  is that what his wife thinks happened?  so you're fairly certain that he left you for somebody else.  do you have any idea who he might be with now?  did your husband ever receive any threatening phone calls or anything unusual in the mail?  well, theres a possibility that his disappearance may have something to do with a report he was about to file with the department of agriculture.  well he cited multiple violations.  was there any merit to his claims?  so he really did threaten to shut the plant down.  problem enough to do something about? 
 what are you talking about?  yeah, i read about that. it's caused by high-speed repetitive activity.  what happened to his lawsuit?  so, mulder, are you ready to admit they sent us on a fool's errand?   well, whether george kearns skipped town or somebody killed him, this case could've been handled by any agent under the kansas city office.   you okay? 
 do you have any idea what might have prompted her attack?  no recent complaints or strange behavior?  were you able to determine the cause?  you didn't find anything physically wrong with her?  could it have been line hypnosis?  how did you treat them?  well, i think an autopsy on paula gray would clarify things.  why? you're a physician.  were sorry to disturb you, sir. we realize this is a difficult time for you.  that's what we're hoping a postmortem will determine.  i assume youre talking about george kearns.  then you're aware of his recommendation to close down your plant?  i think weve got something here, mulder. take a look at this.  it's a specimen from paula gray's brain. she suffered from a rare degenerative disorder called creutzfeldt- jacob disease. it's characterized by the formation of spongelike holes in the brain tissue.  short of an autopsy it's very difficult to diagnose. outside of a textbook ive only seen infected tissue once and that was back in medical school.  absolutely. victims of creutzfeldt-jacob suffer from progressive dementia, severe seizures...  this girl would have been dead in months.  theres got to be some kind of a mistake.  the odds that paula gray and george kearns had the same disease are practically nonexistent. creutzfeldt-jacob can be hereditary but it's not communicable. that two unrelated people in the same small town would contract the same rare disease is...  mulder, look out! 
  this is federal agent scully. id like to report an accident on count a7 i just got off the phone with dr. randolph. he said this driver had the same symptoms as paula gray and george kearns.  well, they would be.  i just came up with a sick theory, mulder. 
 you saw the feed grinders at the plant. what if somebody put george kearnss body in there? creutzfeldt-jacob is a prion disease which means it could have been passed on to the chickens and in turn anyone who consumed them.  it's possible. you know, sometimes in england they'll incinerate cattle to keep them from passing mad cow disease on to people.  mulder .  well, so far ive been able to isolate nine distinct skeletons. this one belonged to the late george kearns.  the pin in his femur. according to his medical file, kearns broke his right leg four years ago.  well. i'll need more sophisticated equipment to be certain, but i estimate that some of these bones are as much as 20 or 30 years old. all of them share one strange detail, though.  well, besides that. the older bones show signs of decay and surface abrasion just like you'd expect but for some reason all of them, even kearnss, are smooth and buffed at the ends.  it could be from erosion from the water, but...  any theories?  then it may have been the work of some kind of a cult.  you think these people were eaten?  well, then paula gray may have contracted creutzfeldt-jacob by eating george kearns.  what are you talking about?  cannibalism is one thing but increasing longevity by eating human flesh...  we never confirmed the date of birth on her personnel file.  smells like a recent fire.  you think someone was expecting us? 
 where are you going?  mrs. kearns?! mrs. kearns?! 
 mrs. kearns? 
  scully.   yeah, mrs. kearns is missing too, mulder. i think someones been here.  the power was cut and the back door was wide open when i got here. but her car is still out back.  mm-mm. 
  pending further review, the chaco processing plant has been closed by the usda. so far, no evidence of contaminated chicken has been discovered. though it remains unknown how many citizens participated in the ritual activity, 27 have become fatally ill with creutzfeldt-jacob disease. what is known is that a transport plane carrying walter chaco was shot down in 1944 over new guinea. chaco was the only survivor of that crash. according to naval records, he spent six months with the jole -- a tribe whose cannibalistic practices have long been suspected but never proven. naval records also show that walter chaco was born in 1902 making him 93 years old at the time of his death. as of this date, his remains still have not been found. 
separator mulder, skinner's looking for you.  why, what's going on.?  you want me to recite them.?  what are you talking about.?  what is this.?  where did you get this.?  mulder, this may not be gibberish.  i think it's just encrypted and i think i recognise it. it looks like navajo. it was used in world war two. my father told me it was the only code the japanese couldn't break, i... i remember the long strings of consonants.  well only a handful of people can decipher it.  mulder. are you okay.?  yes sir.  no sir. agent mulder told me he was having trouble sleeping.  of course, he's my partner.  yes sir. a year and a half ago. i've been writing regular reports stating the validity of agent mulder's work on the x-files.  am i accused of lying.?  what action is that.?  is that all sir.?  you didn't answer your door.  i couldn't find you at work. i was worried about you.  they called me in today.  that nothing was wrong.  mulder, you opened the door for them, they're just looking for a good reason now.  mulder, these files. who knows you have them.?  because i had to lie today. and i put my job in jeopardy in order to do so. if they find out about those files...  maybe they already know. the question is, is it worth it.? is this cassette worth risking everything.?  i'm meeting with someone in an hour. i might know something later tonight, i just need some kind of assurance that they're not going to let us hang ourselves with this. that i'm doing the right thing.  i need to know one more thing mulder. why did you attack skinner.?  currently yes.  yeah, thank you... er... can you tell me which words you do recognise.?  thank you. you've been very helpful. 
 mulder. 
 hello.  where are you.?  mulder where are you.? just tell me where you are.  who shot him mulder.?  mulder, were you arguing.?  mulder listen to me...  mulder i believe you, just listen to me, you've gotta get out of there, you have to leave immediately.  mulder they're gonna suspect you anyway, you've got no id on the shooter, you, your behavior has been irrational recently, mulder can't you see that everything is pointing directly at you?  damn it mulder, you're an fbi agent, you have access to weapons other than your own.  no. no you can't come home. someone shot through your window tonight, they almost killed me, they might be trying to kill you. fox... my god. look at you. you're sick.  no come on, i want you to lie down on, woah, come on i want you to lie down, let me take your coat off.  right now you have to lie down. come here.  well right now you need to rest okay, rest. it's okay. okay. how long will it take to determine if there a match.?  i took your gun to run it through ballistics to try and clear you mulder.  you had a temperature of 102 last night i didn't want to wake you.  mulder, i'm being called into skinners office this afternoon, they're gonna want answers and i'd like some good ones to give them.  mulder you're sick, you're not thinking straight, i'm on your side. you know that.  mul... mulder, don't shoot him. just back away. 
 i have him mulder.  mulder, mulder it's me. here drink some of that, you haven't had any water in over 36 hours. your shoulder's going to be fine. the round went through nice and clean.  yes, i did. you didn't give me much choice, you were going to shoot krycek.  if he is, then his weapon is probably the same one that killed your father.  if you killed krycek with that weapon there would have been no way to prove that you didn't kill your father. i'm sorry about your father mulder, i haven't been able to tell you.  i didn't. i went back to your apartment to pull the slug from the wall, but i noticed an unmarked van delivering soft water and i found this in one of the tanks servicing your building.  it's a dyalysis filter. it's a device used in the transmission of substance to solution, considering the level of psychosis you were experiencing, it was probably lsd, amphetamines of some kind of exotic dopamine agonist.  well it wasn't an excercise in subtlety. mulder these men are quite possibly the same ones who killed your father and who systematically tried to destroy you by turning everyone you could trust against you. i don't think i have to tell you why.  we're in farmington new mexico.  we've just driven two days across country, i had to put you out to let the side effects of the psychosis abait. this is albert hosteen, he's been translating your files.  albert was a navajo code talker during world war two. he helped encode the original government documents.  through a woman in washington. but he claims he knew you were coming.  most of these files are written in jargon but apparently there was an international conspiracy of silence dating back to the 1940's. albert says that evidence of these secrets are buried on a navajo reservation not far from here. he says that he'll take you as soon as you are able. 
 i'm afraid you're on your own with this. i didn't show up for a meeting with skinner the day before yesterday and i don't know what the repercussions will be.  i was certain they would have killed you mulder.  there's something else. my name is in those files. it appears in the latest entries with duane barry's.  it's not clear, but it has something to do with a test. i want you to find out mulder. i need you to. scully.  where are you.?  what do you mean.?  bodies.?  what happened to them.?  mulder, in these files i found references to experiments that were conducted here in the us by axis power scientists who were given amnesty after the war.  some kind of tests, on humans. what they referred to as merchandise.  are you sure.?  mulder... 